21 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/pl00000716
Molecular mimicry: a critical look at exemplary instances in human diseases.
Molecular mimicry, the concept that antigenic determinants of microorganisms resemble antigenic determinants of the host, is frequently cited as a plausible mechanism to account for the association of infection and autoimmune disease. Based on analogous sequences of amino acids or on cross-reactions of monoclonal antibodies, numerous examples of such mimicry have been reported. There are, however, no clear examples of a human disease caused by molecular mimicry.

75 http://dx.doi.org/10.1023/a:1008315111278
A tracked approach for automated NMR assignments in proteins (TATAPRO).
A novel automated approach for the sequence specific NMR assignments of 1HN, 13Calpha, 13Cbeta, 13C'/1Halpha and 15N spins in proteins, using triple resonance experimental data, is presented. The algorithm, TATAPRO (Tracked AuTomated Assignments in Proteins) utilizes the protein primary sequence and peak lists from a set of triple resonance spectra which correlate 1HN and 15N chemical shifts with those of 13Calpha, 13Cbeta and 13C'/1Halpha. The information derived from such correlations is used to create a 'master-_list' consisting of all possible sets of 1HN(i), 15N(i)13Calpha(i),13Cbeta(i) 13C'beta(i)/1Halpha(i), 13Calpha(i-1), 13Cbeta(i-1) and 13C'(i-1)/1Halpha(i-1) chemical shifts. On the basis of an extensive statistical analysis of 13Calpha and 13Cbeta chemical shift data of proteins derived from the BioMagResBank (BMRB), it is shown that the 20 amino acid residues can be grouped into eight distinct categories, each of which is assigned a unique two-digit code. Such a code is used to tag individual sets of chemical shifts in the master_list and also to translate the protein primary sequence into an array called pps_array. The program then uses the master_list to search for neighbouring partners of a given amino acid residue along the polypeptide chain and sequentially assigns a maximum possible stretch of residues on either side. While doing so. each assigned residue is tracked in an array called assig_array, with the two-digit code assigned earlier. The assig_array is then mapped onto the pps_array for sequence specific resonance assignment. The program has been tested using experimental data on a calcium binding protein from Entamoeba histolytica (Eh-CaBP, 15 kDa) having substantial internal sequence homology and using published data on four other proteins in the molecular weight range of 18-42 kDa. In all the cases, nearly complete sequence specific resonance assignments (> 95%) are obtained. Furthermore, the reliability of the program has been tested by deleting sets of chemical shifts randomly from the master_list created for the test proteins.

138 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00346-9
Geography, ecology and emerging infectious diseases.
Emerging infectious diseases are the focus of increased attention and even alarm in the scholarly and popular literature. The emergence of new diseases and the resurgence of older and previously recognized infectious diseases both in developing and developed country poses challenges for understanding the ecological web of causation, including social, economic, environmental and biological components. This paper is a synthesis of the major characteristics of emerging diseases, in an interdisciplinary context. Political ecology is one framework for analysis that is promising in developing a modified ecology of disease.

144 http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/120347540000400107
The interpretation of test results.
Dermatologists need to interpret an increasing number of research studies and diagnostic tests. Understanding the techniques for interpreting test results and making decisions based upon those tests represent important tools for decision making for both clinicians and researchers. This article focuses briefly on the key parameters of diagnostic tests: sensitivity, specificity, prevalence, predictive values, likelihood ratios, and the concept of receiver-operating-characteristic (ROC) curves. A simple example is presented in a step-by-step manner. The principles of interpreting test results are easy to learn and applicable in daily clinical routine. Therefore, dermatologists should be familiar with the concepts outlined in this paper.

201 http://dx.doi.org/10.1086/324517
Population-based incidence of human granulocytic ehrlichiosis in northwestern Wisconsin, 1997-1999.
The incidence of human granulocytic ehrlichiosis (HGE) in the upper Midwest is uncertain. Active surveillance for suspected HGE was conducted from 1997 through 1999 in a 13-county region of northwestern Wisconsin. Suspected HGE cases were classified, according to the national case definition, as confirmed, probable, or not HGE. In total, 112 confirmed cases and 30 probable cases of HGE were identified. The median age of the 142 case patients was 56 years, and 92 (65%) were male; 111 (78%) were residents of the surveillance region. The mean annual incidence of confirmed and probable HGE was 9.3 cases per 100,000 residents; there was no increase from 1997 to 1999. The incidence was highest among persons > or =50 years old and residents of Washburn County. The incidence of HGE in this region exceeded prior estimates, but it was lower than the reported incidence in areas of endemicity in Connecticut.

254 http://dx.doi.org/10.2460/javma.2001.219.480
Seroepidemiology of Bartonella vinsonii subsp berkhoffii exposure among healthy dogs.
To determine seroprevalence of antibodies to Bartonella vinsonii subsp berkhoffii and risk factors for seropositivity among working dogs owned by the US government. Cross-sectional study. 1,872 dogs. An ELISA was used to detect antibodies to B vinsonii subsp berkhoffii. Antibodies to B vinsonii subsp berkhoffii were detected in 162 dogs (8.7%; 95% confidence interval, 7.4 to 10.0%). Dogs living in the southeast, plains states, southwest, and south-central were significantly more likely to be seropositive than were dogs living in other regions of the United States. German Shepherd-type dogs were significantly less likely to be seropositive than were dogs of other breeds, and dogs entering training programs or that had been rejected from a training program were significantly more likely to be seropositive than were dogs used for narcotics detection and dogs trained to patrol or detect explosives. Dogs used by the border patrol or Federal Aviation Administration were more likely to be seropositive than were dogs used by the Department of Defense or customs service. Odds that dogs would be seropositive were significantly higher for dogs stationed in the southern United States, the northeastern United States, or a foreign country, compared with dogs stationed in all other regions of the United States. Overall, 8.7% of this diverse group of healthy dogs was found to be seropositive for antibodies to B vinsonii subsp berkhoffii, and seropositivity rates were associated with location, suggesting either that there are multiple vectors for the organism or that the major vector for the organism depends on geographic and environmental factors.

267 http://dx.doi.org/10.1017/s1461145701002371
Paediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcal infection (PANDAS).
The evidence to date, both published and unpublished, which addresses the validity of the proposed unique subgroup of children with early and abrupt onset of obsessive--compulsive disorder (OCD) and/or tic disorders subsequent to streptococcal infections was reviewed. The aetiology of OCD and tic disorders is unknown, although it appears that both disorders may arise from a variety of genetic and environmental factors. Post-streptococcal autoimmunity has been postulated as one possible mechanism for some. The acronym PANDAS (for paediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcal infections) has been given to a subgroup of paediatric patients who meet five inclusionary criteria: presence of OCD and/or tic disorder, pre-pubertal symptom onset, sudden onset or episodic course of symptoms, temporal association between streptococcal infections and neuropsychiatric symptom exacerbations, and associated neurological abnormalities. The proposed model of pathophysiology provides for several unique treatment strategies, including the use of antibiotic prophylaxis to prevent streptococcal-triggered exacerbations, and the use of immunomodulatory interventions (such as intravenous immunoglobulin or therapeutic plasma exchange) in the treatment severe neuropsychiatric symptoms. For the latter study group, long-term (2--5 yr) follow-up revealed continued symptom improvement for the majority of patients, particularly when antibiotic prophylaxis had been effective in preventing recurrent streptococcal infections. In addition, the episodic nature of the subgroup's illness provides for opportunities to study brain structure and function during health and disease, as well as allowing for investigations of the aetiologic role of anti-neuronal antibodies and neuroimmune dysfunction in both OCD and tic disorders. Although much research remains to be done, an increasing body of evidence provides support for the postulate that OCD and tic disorders may arise from post-streptococcal autoimmunity. The unique clinical characteristics of the PANDAS subgroup, the presence of volumetric changes in the basal ganglia, and the dramatic response to immunomodulatory treatments, suggest that symptoms arise from a combination of local, regional and systemic dysfunction. Ongoing research is directed at understanding the nature of the abnormal immune response, as well as identifying at-risk children, in order to provide for novel strategies of prevention and treatment.

335 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/s0264-410x(00)00524-7
An efficacious recombinant subunit vaccine against the salmonid rickettsial pathogen Piscirickettsia salmonis.
Piscirickettsia salmonis is the aetiological agent of salmonid rickettsial septicaemia, an economically devastating rickettsial disease of farmed salmonids. Infected salmonids respond poorly to antibiotic treatment and no effective vaccine is available for the control of P. salmonis. Bacterin preparations of P. salmonis were found to elicit a dose-dependent response in coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch), which varied from inadequate protection to exacerbation of the disease. However, an outer surface lipoprotein of P. salmonis, OspA, recombinantly produced in Escherichia coli elicited a high level of protection in vaccinated coho salmon with a relative percent survival as high as 59% for this single antigen. In an effort to further improve the efficacy of the OspA recombinant vaccine, T cell epitopes (TCE's) from tetanus toxin and measles virus fusion protein, that are universally immunogenic in mammalian immune systems, were incorporated tandemly into an OspA fusion protein. Addition of these TCE's dramatically enhanced the efficacy of the OspA vaccine, reflected by a three-fold increase in vaccine efficacy. These results represent a highly effective monovalent recombinant subunit vaccine for a rickettsia-like pathogen, P. salmonis, and for the first time demonstrate the immunostimulatory effect of mammalian TCE's in the salmonid immune model. These results may also be particularly pertinent to salmonid aquaculture in which the various subspecies are outbred and of heterologous haplotypes.

347 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/s0022-510x(00)00501-3
Cerebrospinal fluid analysis: disease-related data patterns and evaluation programs.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis is a basic tool for diagnosis of neurological diseases. Knowledge regarding blood-CSF barrier function (molecular flux/CSF flow theory) and neuroimmunology is reviewed to aid understanding and evaluation of CSF data. Disease-related immunoglobulin patterns (IgG, IgA, IgM with reference to albumin) are described in CSF/serum quotient diagrams with the hyperbolic reference range for blood-derived protein fractions in CSF. Clinical relevance of complementary analyses (cytology, PCR, oligoclonal IgG, antibody detection and brain-derived proteins) is briefly discussed. Integrated CSF data reports are shown with numerical and graphical data representation, reference range-related interpretation and diagnosis-related comments. The principles and rationale of general CSF analysis reported in this review should enable the reader to accurately interpret CSF data profiles, and to plan a proper evaluation of new brain- or blood-derived analytes in CSF.

412 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/s0161-6420(02)01226-5
Cause and prognosis of nontraumatic sixth nerve palsies in young adults.
To review the causes and prognosis of sixth nerve palsies in patients who are 20 to 50 years of age. Retrospective, noncomparative case series. All patients aged 20 to 50 years with a nontraumatic sixth nerve palsy seen in a neuro-ophthalmic practice from 1994 to 2000. Diagnostic testing to determine the cause of the palsy and surgical intervention to correct persistent stable strabismus. Cause of the palsy. The patients' clinical courses were reviewed. The most common cause for a sixth nerve palsy in this age group was a central nervous system (CNS) mass lesion, although the most common cause for an isolated sixth nerve palsy in this age group was multiple sclerosis. Patients with a CNS mass lesion responsible for their palsy had the highest rate of nonresolution requiring strabismus surgery. Sixth nerve palsies are unusual in young adults, but in the practice of author (GBK) most are secondary to CNS mass lesions and, when isolated, multiple sclerosis. Deferring neuroimaging or other appropriate investigations presuming a microvascular cause for the palsy in this age group is not recommended.

630 http://dx.doi.org/10.1046/j.1440-0960.2003.00651.x
Ticks in australia.
Ticks are blood-sucking parasites of vertebrates that may embed in human skin and are therefore of clinical relevance to dermatologists and their medical colleagues. Depending on the species involved, consequences of tick attachment vary from minor local reactions to significant systemic sequelae. It is possible to minimize morbidity by removing the tick in its entirety as soon as it is detected. Some techniques to achieve this are described. This review will aid clinicians in the recognition and practical management of tick bites in Australia.

709 http://dx.doi.org/10.1023/b:modi.0000036236.11774.1b
Cross-reactivity of T lymphocytes in infection and autoimmunity.
T helper (Th) lymphocytes mediate critical effector and regulatory functions in infectious, allergic, or autoimmune diseases. Th cells possess clonal receptors that recognize antigenic peptides that are complexed with self-molecules of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) on the surface of antigen presenting cells. An organism's repertoire of T cell receptors must be broad enough to recognize any possible microbial antigen. At the same time, tissue destruction resulting from the attack of autoreactive T lymphocytes that recognize self-peptides must be avoided. It was therefore believed that the immune system could distinguish between self and non-self antigens. This hypothesis was supported by several lines of evidence, including the seemingly exquisite specificity of immune responses. What, then, triggers autoaggressive attacks by the immune system? Clinical and epidemiological observations strongly suggest a link between infection and autoimmunity. A popular hypothesis considers autoimmunity as a side effect of antimicrobial immune responses. Cross-reactive T cells, capable of recognizing both microbial and self-peptides, have been prime suspects as instigators of autoimmunity ever since computerized data base searches revealed astonishing sequence homologies between microbial and self-peptides. Here we review recent data that show a previously unexpected degeneracy of antigen recognition by T cells. It has become clear that each individual T cell receptor can recognize a large number of different ligands. Furthermore, structural criteria rather than sequence homology dictate the antigen recognition process. Thus, the idea that cross-reactivity per se would cause autoimmune disease is most likely too simple. Instead, a variety of different molecular mechanisms dictate the immunological outcome of ligand recognition by T cells.

766 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/s0033-8389(03)00159-3
Imaging of articular disorders in children.
This article reviews aspects of arthritis imaging that are specific to children. The pediatric skeleton is unique and responds in characteristic ways to articular inflammation. Epiphyseal and physeal cartilage are affected by joint diseases, and disturbances of growth and maturation are sometimes the cardinal manifestations of arthritis. The target joints of pediatric articular diseases differ considerably from those of diseases in adults. Imaging techniques should be tailored to the children being studied.

794 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00330-003-2064-8
Spinal and spinal cord infection.
This review article includes infections of the vertebral body, intervertebral disc, ligaments and paravertebral soft tissues, epidural space, meninges and subarachnoid space, and the spinal cord. A wide range of infective organisms may be implicated and the incidence of some, notably tuberculosis, is rising due to increased immunocompromise and other factors. Imaging plays a key role in early diagnosis of these diseases, which may be severe and potentially life threatening. Infection may be acquired by the hematogenous route, by infection from contiguous structures or from direct inoculation. Of available imaging techniques, CT and MRI offer the clinically most valuable methods of evaluating all the structures potentially involved in infection. Although many signs are non-specific, indication is given of where appearances raise strong suspicion of infection. The extent of the inflammatory process is well evaluated by imaging, particularly in terms of severity and morbidity of clinical sequelae, which may be severe. Early investigation is mandatory and as MRI presently has the key role in investigation, it should be employed at an early stage of clinical suspicion.

841 http://dx.doi.org/10.1179/016164105x49508
Role of immunologic cross-reactivity in neurological diseases.
Although the immune system evolved to protect the host from foreign infection, it can sometimes recognize and attack host tissues, a phenomenon known as autoimmunity. In addition to genetic factors, environmental elements such as viruses and bacteria are thought to play a role in the development of autoimmune diseases. The major hypothesized mechanism by which infection with these agents can lead to autoimmunity is termed molecular mimicry. Here, immune responses initiated against foreign antigens are cross-reactive with self-antigens. This is thought to occur especially if the foreign antigen is similar in structure or amino acid sequence to the self-antigen. In this review, we explore evidence for the role of molecular mimicry in neurological diseases.

985 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.pop.2006.06.002
Dermatologic emergencies.
Primary care physicians are the gatekeepers of the medical community. They are the physicians to whom patients first present, and they are often the physicians with whom patients have the longest lasting relationships. Primary care physicians, as a result of these long-term relationships, have been endowed with a unique responsibility to the health of their patients. By the very nature of their practice, primary care physicians do not have the resources to treat emergent life-threatening conditions. They must, however, be able to diagnose these potentially life-threatening conditions and be able to stabilize and appropriately refer a patient for urgent evaluation by specialists or emergency physicians. There are many types of emergencies encountered in the outpatient setting, ranging from cardiac to toxicologic. As important as recognizing signs and symptoms of cardiac ischemia is the ability to recognize potentially life-threatening dermatologic disorders or dermatologic manifestations of life-threatening systemic diseases.

1015 http://dx.doi.org/10.12968/bjon.2006.15.15.21691
Dermatology: litigation and the NHS Redress Bill.
This article considers an allegation of failure to diagnose a patient's condition by the consultant dermatologist and considers the likely repercussions if the NHS Redress Bill currently going before Parliament is passed and implemented.

1071 http://dx.doi.org/10.1089/vbz.2006.6.14
Purdue University-Banfield National Companion Animal Surveillance Program for emerging and zoonotic diseases.
A National Companion Animal Surveillance Program (NCASP) was established at Purdue University to monitor clinical syndromes and diseases using the electronic medical records of >80,000 companion animals visiting >500 Banfield hospitals weekly in 44 states. With funding from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, NCASP was initially developed for syndromic surveillance of Category A agents of bioterrorism. Surveillance was expanded through inclusion of electronic reports from Antech Diagnostics, a nationwide network of integrated veterinary diagnostic laboratories serving >18,000 private veterinary practices. NCASP characterizes and displays temporal and spatial patterns of diseases in dogs, cats, and other companion animals. It detects unusual clusters of potential emerging/zoonotic infections and monitors flea and tick activity. Data is processed and analyzed using SAS and ESRI software products. The NCASP can be used by veterinarians to enhance their practice of evidence-based medicine by providing information needed to individualize vaccine protocols for animals in specific geographic areas.

1130 http://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid1312.070211
Need for improved methods to collect and present spatial epidemiologic data for vectorborne diseases.
Improved methods for collection and presentation of spatial epidemiologic data are needed for vectorborne diseases in the United States. Lack of reliable data for probable pathogen exposure site has emerged as a major obstacle to the development of predictive spatial risk models. Although plague case investigations can serve as a model for how to ideally generate needed information, this comprehensive approach is cost-prohibitive for more common and less severe diseases. New methods are urgently needed to determine probable pathogen exposure sites that will yield reliable results while taking into account economic and time constraints of the public health system and attending physicians. Recent data demonstrate the need for a change from use of the county spatial unit for presentation of incidence of vectorborne diseases to more precise ZIP code or census tract scales. Such fine-scale spatial risk patterns can be communicated to the public and medical community through Web-mapping approaches.

1155 http://dx.doi.org/10.3934/mbe.2007.4.633
Optimal control on hybrid ode systems with application to a tick disease model.
We are considering an optimal control problem for a type of hybrid system involving ordinary differential equations and a discrete time feature. One state variable has dynamics in only one season of the year and has a jump condition to obtain the initial condition for that corresponding season in the next year. The other state variable has continuous dynamics. Given a general objective functional, existence, necessary conditions and uniqueness for an optimal control are established. We apply our approach to a tick-transmitted disease model with age structure in which the tick dynamics changes seasonally while hosts have continuous dynamics. The goal is to maximize disease-free ticks and minimize infected ticks through an optimal control strategy of treatment with acaricide. Numerical examples are given to illustrate the results.

1156 http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02841850701477728
Intracranial infections: clinical and imaging characteristics.
The radiologist plays a crucial role in identifying and narrowing the differential diagnosis of intracranial infections. A thorough understanding of the intracranial compartment anatomy and characteristic imaging findings of specific pathogens, as well incorporation of the clinical information, is essential to establish correct diagnosis. Specific types of infections have certain propensities for different anatomical regions within the brain. In addition, the imaging findings must be placed in the context of the clinical setting, particularly in immunocompromised and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive patients. This paper describes and depicts infections within the different compartments of the brain. Pathology-proven infectious cases are presented in both immunocompetent and immunocompromised patients, with a discussion of the characteristic findings of each pathogen. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) characteristics for several infections are also discussed.

1201 http://dx.doi.org/10.1097/yco.0b013e3281a305c3
Concurrent medical conditions with pediatric bipolar disorder.
Pediatric bipolar disorder is a serious mental illness with significant morbidity and mortality. A variety of medical and psychiatric conditions occur concurrently with bipolar disorder. These conditions have been more frequently reported in adults. There prevalence in pediatric bipolar disorder is less known. This report is particularly relevant and timely due to the chronic nature of bipolar disorder and the profound impact on health that its treatments can bring. This evolving area needs to be understood to maximize clinical outcomes. While little has been published about pediatric bipolar disorder and its concurrent medical conditions specifically, many reports that focused on adults included pediatric subjects. Concurrent medical conditions fall into a small number of groupings. (1) Those that are related to bipolar disorder or its treatment. (2) Medical conditions that mimic mania. (3) Conditions that occur more commonly in patients with bipolar disorder, but do not appear to be related to its treatment. (4) Those that may be related to risk behaviors associated with bipolar disorder. Many medical conditions that occur concurrently with bipolar disorder in adults are also present in youth. The premature (iatrogenic) initiation of some conditions related to its treatment may pose specific ethical dilemmas for those treating psychiatric conditions.

1349 http://dx.doi.org/10.1182/blood-2008-04-152850
European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer and International Society for Cutaneous Lymphoma consensus recommendations for the management of cutaneous B-cell lymphomas.
Primary cutaneous B-cell lymphomas (CBCL) represent approximately 20% to 25% of all primary cutaneous lymphomas. With the advent of the World Health Organization-European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Consensus Classification for Cutaneous Lymphomas in 2005, uniform terminology and classification for this rare group of neoplasms were introduced. However, staging procedures and treatment strategies still vary between different cutaneous lymphoma centers, which may be because consensus recommendations for the management of CBCL have never been published. Based on an extensive literature search and discussions within the EORTC Cutaneous Lymphoma Group and the International Society for Cutaneous Lymphomas, the present report aims to provide uniform recommendations for the management of the 3 main groups of CBCL. Because no systematic reviews or (randomized) controlled trials were available, these recommendations are mainly based on retrospective studies and small cohort studies. Despite these limitations, there was consensus among the members of the multidisciplinary expert panel that these recommendations reflect the state-of-the-art management as currently practiced in major cutaneous lymphoma centers. They may therefore contribute to uniform staging and treatment and form the basis for future clinical trials in patients with a CBCL.

1366 http://dx.doi.org/10.3233/jad-2008-13404
Chronic inflammation and amyloidogenesis in Alzheimer's disease -- role of Spirochetes.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with dementia, brain atrophy and the aggregation and accumulation of a cortical amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta). Chronic bacterial infections are frequently associated with amyloid deposition. It had been known from a century that the spirochete Treponema pallidum can cause dementia in the atrophic form of general paresis. It is noteworthy that the pathological hallmarks of this atrophic form are similar to those of AD. Recent observations showed that bacteria, including spirochetes contain amyloidogenic proteins and also that Abeta deposition and tau phosphorylation can be induced in or in vivo following exposure to bacteria or LPS. Bacteria or their poorly degradable debris are powerful inflammatory cytokine inducers, activate complement, affect vascular permeability, generate nitric oxide and free radicals, induce apoptosis and are amyloidogenic. All these processes are involved in the pathogenesis of AD. Old and new observations, reviewed here, indicate that to consider the possibility that bacteria, including several types of spirochetes highly prevalent in the population at large or their persisting debris may initiate cascade of events leading to chronic inflammation and amyloid deposition in AD is important, as appropriate antibacterial and antiinflammatory therapy would be available to prevent dementia.

1385 http://dx.doi.org/10.12968/hmed.2008.69.4.28977
Cerebrospinal fluid: the role of biochemical analysis.
Biochemical analysis of cerebrospinal fluid may provide answers to important clinical questions. This review summarizes these questions and outlines the value and limitations of cerebrospinal fluid analysis.

1551 http://dx.doi.org/10.1097/01.nhh.0000356780.55256.41
Update on rheumatology: part 1.
There are many rheumatic diseases. Part 1 of this 2 part series on rheumatology presented a few of those most commonly seen in the community. Home health clinicians can be helpful in managing these diseases and preventing progression by watching for new symptoms or acute attacks of pain or disability, ensuring that patients take their medications appropriately, reminding patients to see their rheumatology providers and have their lab work done regularly, and reporting adverse effects to medications promptly. Additionally, as with most home health patients, an interdisciplinary approach that includes physical and occupational therapy, social work, nursing, nutrition, and other disciplines as needed should be implemented so that all patient needs are met and the patient is discharged at the highest level of self-care that is possible. Part 2 of this series will discuss the care of the patient with rheumatic disease at home and will provide a more in-depth look at lab diagnosis of rheumatic diseases.

1659 http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature09575
Impacts of biodiversity on the emergence and transmission of infectious diseases.
Current unprecedented declines in biodiversity reduce the ability of ecological communities to provide many fundamental ecosystem services. Here we evaluate evidence that reduced biodiversity affects the transmission of infectious diseases of humans, other animals and plants. In principle, loss of biodiversity could either increase or decrease disease transmission. However, mounting evidence indicates that biodiversity loss frequently increases disease transmission. In contrast, areas of naturally high biodiversity may serve as a source pool for new pathogens. Overall, despite many remaining questions, current evidence indicates that preserving intact ecosystems and their endemic biodiversity should generally reduce the prevalence of infectious diseases.

1689 http://dx.doi.org/10.1097/pec.0b013e3181f3bd4a
Facial nerve palsy: etiology and approach to diagnosis and treatment.
Facial nerve palsy has a broad differential diagnosis and possible psychological and anatomical consequences. A thorough investigation must be performed to determine the cause of the palsy and to direct treatment. If no cause can be found, therapy with prednisone with or without an antiviral medication can be considered and begun as early as possible after onset of symptoms. Resolution and time to recovery vary with etiology, but overall prognosis is good.

1695 http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0012871
Human integrin α(3)β(1) regulates TLR2 recognition of lipopeptides from endosomal compartments.
Toll-like receptor (TLR)-2/TLR1 heterodimers recognize bacterial lipopeptides and initiate the production of inflammatory mediators. Adaptors and co-receptors that mediate this process, as well as the mechanisms by which these adaptors and co-receptors function, are still being discovered. Using shRNA, blocking antibodies, and fluorescent microscopy, we show that U937 macrophage responses to the TLR2/1 ligand, Pam(3)CSK(4), are dependent upon an integrin, α(3)β(1). The mechanism for integrin α(3)β(1) involvement in TLR2/1 signaling is through its role in endocytosis of lipopeptides. Using inhibitors of endosomal acidification/maturation and physical tethering of the ligand, we show that the endocytosis of Pam(3)CSK(4) is necessary for the complete TLR2/1-mediated pro-inflammatory cytokine response. We also show that TLR2/1 signaling from the endosome results in the induction of different inflammatory mediators than TLR2/1 signaling from the plasma membrane. Here we identify integrin α(3)β(1) as a novel regulator for the recognition of bacterial lipopeptides. We demonstrate that induction of a specific subset of cytokines is dependent upon integrin α(3)β(1)-mediated endocytosis of the ligand. In addition, we address an ongoing controversy regarding endosomal recognition of bacterial lipopeptides by demonstrating that TLR2/1 signals from within endosomal compartments as well as the plasma membrane, and that downstream responses may differ depending upon receptor localization. We propose that the regulation of endosomal TLR2/1 signaling by integrin α(3)β(1) serves as a mechanism for modulating inflammatory responses.

1762 http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13648470903572366
The potential of the internet for alternative caring practices for health.
The practices of health care in late modernity are informed by competing visions of the ideal human and the nature of care. Western societies typically characterise the ideal human as independent and self-reliant. The resultant welfare systems provide temporary havens away from the everyday, competitive spaces of capitalist societies, termed here the enclave model. Social scientists problematise this model on several grounds: the construction of pathologised and medicalised body forms; the neglect of caring practices that are gendered, invisible and primarily private; the de-politicisation of caring practices. Policy calls reject reference to care and its associations with dependency, make visible and value informal care work or invoke a caring citizenship as a policy goal not just a means. Into this field of contested notions of care enters a well-documented rise in access to, and consultation through, the internet in everyday lives for a vast range of issues. Health care encountered online reflects a similar range in form as that encountered offline and much that is innovative, whilst clearly of benefit, does nothing to challenge the existing dominance of the enclave model of social care. However, certain groups of sites create spaces through which participants can both express and extract caring relationships that are otherwise unforthcoming. The paper argues that these sites afford the potential to develop an alternative model of caring, to reframe questions of how to care about distant others and to demonstrate the centrality of caring relations to human life.

1899 http://dx.doi.org/10.1890/09-1409.1
Data-model fusion to better understand emerging pathogens and improve infectious disease forecasting.
Ecologists worldwide are challenged to contribute solutions to urgent and pressing environmental problems by forecasting how populations, communities, and ecosystems will respond to global change. Rising to this challenge requires organizing ecological information derived from diverse sources and formally assimilating data with models of ecological processes. The study of infectious disease has depended on strategies for integrating patterns of observed disease incidence with mechanistic process models since John Snow first mapped cholera cases around a London water pump in 1854. Still, zoonotic and vector-borne diseases increasingly affect human populations, and methods used to successfully characterize directly transmitted diseases are often insufficient. We use four case studies to demonstrate that advances in disease forecasting require better understanding of zoonotic host and vector populations, as well of the dynamics that facilitate pathogen amplification and disease spillover into humans. In each case study, this goal is complicated by limited data, spatiotemporal variability in pathogen transmission and impact, and often, insufficient biological understanding. We present a conceptual framework for data-model fusion in infectious disease research that addresses these fundamental challenges using a hierarchical state-space structure to (1) integrate multiple data sources and spatial scales to inform latent parameters, (2) partition uncertainty in process and observation models, and (3) explicitly build upon existing ecological and epidemiological understanding. Given the constraints inherent in the study of infectious disease and the urgent need for progress, fusion of data and expertise via this type of conceptual framework should prove an indispensable tool.

1929 http://dx.doi.org/10.1053/j.semdp.2011.02.012
Inflammatory diseases of the bones and joints.
The inflammatory diseases of the bones and joints encompass infections and the consequences of immunologically mediated local and systemic disease. Infections involve bones (osteomyelitis) and joints (septic arthritis) separately as well as together and result in necrosis with inflammatory features determined by the duration of the infection. In many cases, the infecting organism, whether bacterial, fungal or mycobacterial, is present within the infected site, but occasionally is no longer identifiable locally despite the persistence of infection-related phenomena. Granulomatous infections in bones and joints require distinction from Sarcoidosis. The diagnosis of the immunologically mediated inflammatory diseases, such as RA, depends as much on the clinical features as on the histologic ones, with a few findings that might point to one or the other in ambiguous cases. Any discussion of inflammatory arthropathies should at least mention Osteoarthritis, if for no other reason than to compare it with the traditionally regarded inflammatory diseases. However, there has been increasing interest on the potential role that synovial inflammation may play in the pathogenesis of this vary common arthritis. Ultimately, the diagnosis of the inflammatory diseases of the bones and joints requires the synthesis of information from many sources: clinical, serological, microbiological, radiographic, and pathological.

1979 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.nic.2012.05.015
Imaging of rickettsial, spirochetal, and parasitic infections.
This article is an update and literature review of the clinical and neuroimaging findings of the commonly known rickettsial, spirochetal, and eukaryotic parasitic infections. Being familiar with clinical presentation and imaging findings of these infections is crucial for early diagnosis and treatment especially in patients who live in or have a travel history to endemic regions or are immunocompromised.

2009 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00005-012-0190-1
Immunological functions of steryl glycosides.
Steryl glycosides, sterols glycosylated at the 3β-hydroxy group, have been widely found in plants, algae, and fungi, but are rare in bacteria and animals. Glycosylation of sterols is known to modify properties of the cell membrane and confer resistance against stresses by freezing or heat-shock on cells. Furthermore, accumulating evidence obtained from recent research suggests important biological functions of steryl glycosides, including regulation of host defenses against pathogens, lipid metabolism, and developmental events. This review is focused on the immunological functions of steryl glycosides, such as modulation of host immune functions upon exposure to cholesteryl glycosides produced by pathogenic bacteria.

2199 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.smim.2013.08.006
Lipidomic profiling of bioactive lipids by mass spectrometry during microbial infections.
Bioactive lipid mediators play crucial roles in promoting the induction and resolution of inflammation. Eicosanoids and other related unsaturated fatty acids have long been known to induce inflammation. These signaling molecules can modulate the circulatory system and stimulate immune cell infiltration into the site of infection. Recently, DHA- and EPA-derived metabolites have been discovered to promote the resolution of inflammation, an active process. Not only do these molecules stop the further infiltration of immune cells, they prompt non-phlogistic phagocytosis of apoptotic neutrophils, stimulating the tissue to return to homeostasis. After the rapid release of lipid precursors from the plasma membrane upon stimulation, families of enzymes in a complex network metabolize them to produce a large array of lipid metabolites. With current advances in mass spectrometry, the entire lipidome can be accurately quantified to assess the immune response upon microbial infection. In this review, we discuss the various lipid metabolism pathways in the context of the immune response to microbial pathogens, as well as their complex network interactions. With the advancement of mass spectrometry, these approaches have also been used to characterize the lipid mediator response of macrophages and neutrophils upon immune stimulation in vitro. Lastly, we describe the recent efforts to apply systems biology approaches to dissect the role of lipid mediators during bacterial and viral infections in vivo.

2227 http://dx.doi.org/10.1097/mao.0b013e3182937ad4
Clinical outcome after cochlear implantation in patients with unilateral hearing loss due to labyrinthitis ossificans.
Cochlear implantation (CI) is the treatment of choice in bilateral labyrinthitis ossificans (LO). The aim of this clinical case study was to evaluate audiologic and subjective outcomes after CI treatment for unilateral hearing loss (UHL) because of LO and to identify optimal timing for treatment. Three subjects (age 40, 54, and 68 yr) with UHL because of LO were enrolled. Duration of deafness was 1.5, 12, and 120 months. After extensive consultation, testing with conventional contralateral routing of signal hearing aid and bone-anchored hearing instrument, CI candidacy was confirmed and CI surgery performed. Test of open-set speech recognition in background noise and sound localization were performed preoperatively, in unaided and aided conditions, and in the CI-aided condition, at 6 and 12 months postoperatively. Subjective assessment via the Speech, Spatial and Qualities scale (SSQ) and the Tinnitus Visual Analogue Scale was performed at preimplant and 12 months postimplant. The data show moderate-to-high hearing benefit after CI in 2 cases and no benefit for the third. SSQ and tinnitus scales show benefit from CI use in both cases. CI treatment should be performed as early as possible, ideally before signs of obliteration are evident. Counseling on all rehabilitation options is important.

2250 http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/aje/kwt046
Predicting human West Nile virus infections with mosquito surveillance data.
West Nile virus (WNV) has become established across the Americas with recent heightened activity causing significant human illness. Surveillance methods to predict the risk of human infection are urgently needed to initiate timely preventative measures and justify the expense of implementing costly or unpopular control measures, such as aerial spraying or curfews. We quantified the links between mosquito surveillance data and the spatiotemporal patterns of 3,827 human WNV cases reported over 5 years in Colorado from 2003 to 2007. Mosquito data were strongly predictive of variation in the number of human WNV infections several weeks in advance in both a spatiotemporal statewide analysis and temporal variation within counties with substantial numbers of human cases. We outline several ways to further improve the predictive power of these data and we quantify the loss of information if no funds are available for testing mosquitoes for WNV. These results demonstrate that mosquito surveillance provides a valuable public health tool for assessing the risk of human arboviral infections, allocating limited public health resources, and justifying emergency control actions.

2298 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.mric.2014.07.012
MR imaging assessment of arthritis of the knee.
The magnetic resonance (MR) imaging presentations of arthritis of the knee are important for radiologists to recognize because these disorders are often clinically unsuspected. When they are known or clinically suspected, knowledge of imaging features allows for the confirmation and characterization of the extent of disease. This article reviews the fundamental MR imaging manifestations of rheumatologic disorders of the knee and their presentation in specific arthropathies.

2309 http://dx.doi.org/10.1074/mcp.m114.043513
Epitope identification from fixed-complexity random-sequence peptide microarrays.
Antibodies play an important role in modern science and medicine. They are essential in many biological assays and have emerged as an important class of therapeutics. Unfortunately, current methods for mapping antibody epitopes require costly synthesis or enrichment steps, and no low-cost universal platform exists. In order to address this, we tested a random-sequence peptide microarray consisting of over 330,000 unique peptide sequences sampling 83% of all possible tetramers and 27% of pentamers. It is a single, unbiased platform that can be used in many different types of tests, it does not rely on informatic selection of peptides for a particular proteome, and it does not require iterative rounds of selection. In order to optimize the platform, we developed an algorithm that considers the significance of k-length peptide subsequences (k-mers) within selected peptides that come from the microarray. We tested eight monoclonal antibodies and seven infectious disease cohorts. The method correctly identified five of the eight monoclonal epitopes and identified both reported and unreported epitope candidates in the infectious disease cohorts. This algorithm could greatly enhance the utility of random-sequence peptide microarrays by enabling rapid epitope mapping and antigen identification.

2357 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.mcna.2014.06.012
Medical conditions with neuropsychiatric manifestations.
Medical disease sometimes affects patients through neuropsychiatric manifestations. When neuropsychiatric symptoms are predominant, identifying medical disease early in the illness course is imperative because many of these conditions are reversible with appropriate treatment. A high index of suspicion is required on the part of clinicians, particularly when patients also present with physical signs or unexplained symptoms that might suggest a broader, systemic process. The processes that most commonly cause neuropsychiatric symptoms include infectious, autoimmune, endocrinologic, metabolic, and neoplastic diseases. This article focuses on the most common of these conditions, and conditions for which early diagnosis and treatment are particularly important.

2408 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1476-072x-13-21
Natural-focal diseases: mapping experience in Russia.
Natural-focal diseases constitute a serious hazard for human health. Agents and vectors of such diseases belong to natural landscapes. The aim of this study is to identify the diversity and geography of natural-focal diseases in Russia and to develop cartographic approaches for their mapping, including mathematical-cartographical modeling. Russian medico-geographical mapping of natural-focal diseases is highly developed regionally and locally but extremely limited at the national level. To solve this problem, a scientific team of the Faculty of Geography at Lomonosov Moscow State University has developed and implemented a project of a medico-geographical Atlas of Russia "Natural-Focal Diseases". The mapping is based on medical statistics data. The Atlas contains a series of maps on disease incidence, long-term dynamics of disease morbidity, etc. In addition, other materials available to the authors were used: mapping of the natural environment, field data, archival materials, analyzed satellite images, etc. The maps are processed using ArcGIS (ESRI) software application. Different methods of rendering of mapped phenomena are used (geographical ranges, diagrams, choropleth maps etc.). A series of analytical, integrated, and synthetic maps shows disease incidence in the population at both the national and regional levels for the last 15 years. Maps of the mean annual morbidity of certain infections and maps of morbidity dynamics and nosological profiles allow for a detailed analysis of the situation for each of 83 administrative units of the Russian Federation. The degree of epidemic hazard in Russia by natural-focal diseases is reflected in a synthetic medico-geographical map that shows the degree of epidemic risks due to such diseases in Russia and allows one to estimate the risk of disease manifestation in a given region. This is the first attempt at aggregation and public presentation of diverse and multifaceted information about natural-focal diseases in Russia. Taken in entirety, the maps that have been prepared for the Atlas will enable researchers to evaluate the stability of epidemic manifestation of individual diseases and the susceptibility of a given territory to disease transmission. The results can be used for sanitary monitoring and disease prevention.

2439 http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/0883073814530497
Overview of pediatric peripheral facial nerve paralysis: analysis of 40 patients.
Peripheral facial nerve paralysis in children might be an alarming sign of serious disease such as malignancy, systemic disease, congenital anomalies, trauma, infection, middle ear surgery, and hypertension. The cases of 40 consecutive children and adolescents who were diagnosed with peripheral facial nerve paralysis at Baskent University Adana Hospital Pediatrics and Pediatric Neurology Unit between January 2010 and January 2013 were retrospectively evaluated. We determined that the most common cause was Bell palsy, followed by infection, tumor lesion, and suspected chemotherapy toxicity. We noted that younger patients had generally poorer outcome than older patients regardless of disease etiology. Peripheral facial nerve paralysis has been reported in many countries in America and Europe; however, knowledge about its clinical features, microbiology, neuroimaging, and treatment in Turkey is incomplete. The present study demonstrated that Bell palsy and infection were the most common etiologies of peripheral facial nerve paralysis.

2609 http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/eji.201545810
Chronic bacterial infection activates autoreactive B cells and induces isotype switching and autoantigen-driven mutations.
The links between infections and the development of B-cell-mediated autoimmune diseases are still unclear. In particular, it has been suggested that infection-induced stimulation of innate immune sensors can engage low affinity autoreactive B lymphocytes to mature and produce mutated IgG pathogenic autoantibodies. To test this hypothesis, we established a new knock-in mouse model in which autoreactive B cells could be committed to an affinity maturation process. We show that a chronic bacterial infection allows the activation of such B cells and the production of nonmutated IgM autoantibodies. Moreover, in the constitutive presence of their soluble antigen, some autoreactive clones are able to acquire a germinal center phenotype, to induce Aicda gene expression and to introduce somatic mutations in the IgG heavy chain variable region on amino acids forming direct contacts with the autoantigen. Paradoxically, only lower affinity variants are detected, which strongly suggests that higher affinity autoantibodies secreting B cells are counterselected. For the first time, we demonstrate in vivo that a noncross-reactive infectious agent can activate and induce autoreactive B cells to isotype switching and autoantigen-driven mutations, but on a nonautoimmune background, tolerance mechanisms prevent the formation of consequently dangerous autoimmunity.

2890 http://dx.doi.org/10.12968/hmed.2016.77.12.686
Causes and management of facial nerve palsy.
Facial nerve palsy causes disfigurement with cosmetic, functional and psychological repercussions. The facial nerve can be affected anywhere along its course. A comprehensive assessment considering all differential diagnoses is critical to optimal management, as prompt, appropriate therapy leads to better outcomes.

2902 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.rvsc.2016.09.001
Application of ethnobotanical repellents and acaricides in prevention, control and management of livestock ticks: A review.
Ticks transmit at least the same number or even more pathogens than any other group of blood-feeding arthropods worldwide affecting humans and animals. The eco-friendly control and management of tick vectors in a constantly changing environment is a crucial challenge. Besides the development of vaccines against ticks, IPM practices aimed at reducing tick interactions with livestock, emerging pheromone-based control tools, and few biological control agents, the extensive employment of acaricides and tick repellents still remain the most effective and ready-to-use strategies. However, the former is limited by the development of growing resistances as well as environmental concerns. Exploiting plants and plant products as sources of effective tick repellents and acaricides represents a promising strategy. In this scenario, the preservation of ethnobotanical information on repellent and acaricidal potential of plants is crucial. Here, we evaluated relevant information published in recent years, focused on plants used as repellents and acaricides against tick vectors in different regions worldwide. We selected a total of 238 plant species, which are traditionally used against ticks by native and local communities of Africa (Kenya, Uganda, Zimbabwe, South Africa), Europe (Serbia, Macedonia, Romania), Asia (Pakistan, India) and America (Brazil, Canada), from 56 families. However, only 7 families (i.e. Asteraceae, Euphorbiaceae, Fabaceae, Lamiaceae, Meliaceae, Apocynaceae and Solanaceae) represent the major quote (46%) of all plant species. We evaluated the differences in acaricidal and repellent efficacy of different formulations used. In the final section, implications arising from the surveyed anti-tick ethnobotanical knowledge and challenges for its future are discussed.

2955 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.artmed.2016.08.003
Executable medical guidelines with Arden Syntax-Applications in dermatology and obstetrics.
Clinical decision support systems (CDSSs) are being developed to assist physicians in processing extensive data and new knowledge based on recent scientific advances. Structured medical knowledge in the form of clinical alerts or reminder rules, decision trees or tables, clinical protocols or practice guidelines, score algorithms, and others, constitute the core of CDSSs. Several medical knowledge representation and guideline languages have been developed for the formal computerized definition of such knowledge. One of these languages is Arden Syntax for Medical Logic Systems, an International Health Level Seven (HL7) standard whose development started in 1989. Its latest version is 2.10, which was presented in 2014. In the present report we discuss Arden Syntax as a modern medical knowledge representation and processing language, and show that this language is not only well suited to define clinical alerts, reminders, and recommendations, but can also be used to implement and process computerized medical practice guidelines. This section describes how contemporary software such as Java, server software, web-services, XML, is used to implement CDSSs based on Arden Syntax. Special emphasis is given to clinical decision support (CDS) that employs practice guidelines as its clinical knowledge base. Two guideline-based applications using Arden Syntax for medical knowledge representation and processing were developed. The first is a software platform for implementing practice guidelines from dermatology. This application employs fuzzy set theory and logic to represent linguistic and propositional uncertainty in medical data, knowledge, and conclusions. The second application implements a reminder system based on clinically published standard operating procedures in obstetrics to prevent deviations from state-of-the-art care. A to-do list with necessary actions specifically tailored to the gestational week/labor/delivery is generated. Today, with the latest versions of Arden Syntax and the application of contemporary software development methods, Arden Syntax has become a powerful and versatile medical knowledge representation and processing language, well suited to implement a large range of CDSSs, including clinical-practice-guideline-based CDSSs. Moreover, such CDS is provided and can be shared as a service by different medical institutions, redefining the sharing of medical knowledge. Arden Syntax is also highly flexible and provides developers the freedom to use up-to-date software design and programming patterns for external patient data access.

3042 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ad.2016.05.003
Cutaneous Pseudolymphomas.
The term cutaneous pseudolymphoma refers to benign reactive lymphoid proliferations in the skin that simulate cutaneous lymphomas. It is a purely descriptive term that encompasses various reactive conditions with a varied etiology, pathogenesis, clinical presentation, histology, and behavior. We present a review of the different types of cutaneous pseudolymphoma. To reach a correct diagnosis, it is necessary to contrast clinical, histologic, immunophenotypic, and molecular findings. Even with these data, in some cases only the clinical course will confirm the diagnosis, making follow-up essential.

3055 http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14789450.2016.1190651
Current state of the art for enhancing urine biomarker discovery.
Urine is a highly desirable biospecimen for biomarker analysis because it can be collected recurrently by non-invasive techniques, in relatively large volumes. Urine contains cellular elements, biochemicals, and proteins derived from glomerular filtration of plasma, renal tubule excretion, and urogenital tract secretions that reflect, at a given time point, an individual's metabolic and pathophysiologic state. High-resolution mass spectrometry, coupled with state of the art fractionation systems are revealing the plethora of diagnostic/prognostic proteomic information existing within urinary exosomes, glycoproteins, and proteins. Affinity capture pre-processing techniques such as combinatorial peptide ligand libraries and biomarker harvesting hydrogel nanoparticles are enabling measurement/identification of previously undetectable urinary proteins. Expert commentary: Future challenges in the urinary proteomics field include a) defining either single or multiple, universally applicable data normalization methods for comparing results within and between individual patients/data sets, and b) defining expected urinary protein levels in healthy individuals.

3156 http://dx.doi.org/10.1586/14737175.2015.1134321
Clinical management of infectious cerebral vasculitides.
A wide range of infections (virus, bacteria, parasite and fungi) may cause cerebral vasculitides. Headache, seizures, encephalopathy and stroke are common forms of presentation. Infection and inflammation of intracranial vessels may cause pathological vascular remodelling, vascular occlusion and ischemia. Vasculitis in chronic meningitis may cause ischemic infarctions, and is associated with poor outcome. Appropriate neuroimaging (CT-angiography, MR-angiography, conventional 4-vessel angiography) and laboratory testing (specific antibodies in blood and CSF, CSF culture and microscopy) and even brain biopsy are needed to quickly establish the aetiology. Enhancement of contrast, wall thickening and lumen narrowing are radiological signs pointing to an infectious vasculitis origin. Although corticosteroids and prophylactic antiplatelet therapy have been used in infectious cerebral vasculitis, there are no randomized clinical trials that have evaluated their efficacy and safety. Stable mycotic aneurysms can be treated with specific antimicrobial therapy. Endovascular therapy and intracranial surgery are reserved for ruptured aneurysms or enlarging unruptured aneurysms.

3187 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/s0151-9638(17)31065-7
[What's new in dermatological treatment?]
On a therapeutic point of view, 2017 in dermatology could be summarized in one disease, one pathway and in one number : atopic dermatitis, JAK inhibitors and 23. 2017 will be the year of the first registration of a biologic treatment in atopic dermatitis, dupilumab, with numerous other drugs currently in development. JAK inhibitors show promising results in several difficult-to-treat conditions, such as alopecia areata, vitiligo or atopic dermatitis, but still warrant confirmation in upcoming controlled trials. Monoclonal antibodies targeting IL-23 have confirmed in phase III studies their great efficacy in controlling psoriasis and will be soon available in practice, illustrating well the optimal link between bench side and bed in this emblematic inflammatory dermatological condition.

3311 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.mehy.2017.05.026
Infections caused by resistant organisms: Could organic arsenic compounds be an effective treatment?
Without question one of the most important medicinal chemistry discoveries of the 20th century was made by Paul Ehrlich and his colleagues, chemist, Alfred Bertheim and bacteriologist, Sahachiro Hata. They ushered in the age of targeted chemotherapy in 1910 with the discovery of the anti-syphilitic organic arsenic agent, arsphenamine or Salvarsan (also known as 606). It was the clinical compound of choice for treating syphilis until penicillin and other antibiotics were introduced clinically in the 1940s. Yet now, more than 100years after its discovery, the precise biochemical mechanism by which this compound eliminates the syphilis spirochete in vivo from humans and animals remains unknown. Other organic arsenic compounds such as melarsoprol and roxarson have been used to treat parasitic infections. More recently, arsenic trioxide has been shown effective in producing remissions and possibly cures in a high percentage of patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia. However, the exact biochemical mechanism by which this clinical result is manifested remains to be determined. The purpose of this publication is to propose a possible mechanism, by which these apparently diverse arsenic compounds function to produce their clinical results and to suggest their potential for the treatment of infections caused by resistant organisms.

3455 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.sjbs.2018.06.007
Managing mosquitoes and ticks in a rapidly changing world - Facts and trends.
Vector-borne diseases transmitted by mosquitoes and ticks are on the rise. The effective and sustainable control of these arthropod vectors is a puzzling challenge for public health worldwide. In the present review, I attempted to provide a concise and updated overview of the current mosquito and tick research scenario. The wide array of control tools recently developed has been considered, with special reference to those approved by the World Health Organization Vector Control Advisory Group (WHO VCAG), as well as novel ones with an extremely promising potential to be exploited in vector control programs. Concerning mosquitoes, a major focus has been given on genetically modified vectors, eave tubes, attractive toxic sugar baits (ATSB) and biocontrol agents. Regarding ticks, the recent development of highly effective repellents and acaricides (including nanoformulated ones) as well as behavior-based control tools, has been highlighted. In the second part of the review, key research questions about biology and control of mosquitoes and ticks have been critically formulated. A timely research agenda outlining hot issues to be addressed in mosquito and tick research is provided. Overall, it is expected that the present review will contribute to boost research and applications on successful mosquito and tick control strategies, along with an improved knowledge of their biology and ecology.

3490 http://dx.doi.org/10.1053/j.semperi.2018.09.017
Public health applications of CRISPR: How children's health can benefit.
Children under the age of five years old face significant mortality risks around the world. Public health innovations, particularly gene-editing technologies such as clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR) could help to reduce the risk of death in children under the age of five years old. For example, CRISPR-based strategies could reduce infectious disease morbidity by gene editing mosquitoes to prevent transmission of malaria. CRISPR gene editing technology could also help to screen for influenza virus and prevent it from replicating; influenza is a particularly difficult to treat and severe virus causing many deaths in children. The lack of liver, kidney, and heart donations for children on the organ donation waiting list could also benefit from CRISPR. Gene editing of pigs to reduce rejection rates and associated risks of porcine endogenous retroviruses could allow for the utilization of pig organs for transplant. Here we review proposed applications of gene-editing technology in public health and discuss its potential to reduce child mortality and morbidity globally.

3493 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.steroids.2018.11.012
Convenient synthesis of the immunogenic glycolipid BbGL1.
A simple and efficient method to synthesize the immunogenic glycolipid BbGL1 is introduced. Two simple steps were required to obtain the desired product in good yield. First, a highly efficient glycosylation of cholesterol using galactosyl trichloroacetimidate as a donor was performed to produce cholesteryl-β-d-galactoside. Finally, an efficient palmitoylation on the C6-OH of the galactose of the synthesized saponin using sym-collidine and acyl chloride under microwave heating that produced BbGL1 in good yield. The procedure is a convenient and cheaper alternative to the reported procedures allowing a rapid preparation of multiple analogs and conjugates.

3657 http://dx.doi.org/10.2196/14769
Usability and Feasibility of a Smartphone App to Assess Human Behavioral Factors Associated with Tick Exposure (The Tick App): Quantitative and Qualitative Study.
Mobile health (mHealth) technology takes advantage of smartphone features to turn them into research tools, with the potential to reach a larger section of the population in a cost-effective manner, compared with traditional epidemiological methods. Although mHealth apps have been widely implemented in chronic diseases and psychology, their potential use in the research of vector-borne diseases has not yet been fully exploited. This study aimed to assess the usability and feasibility of The Tick App, the first tick research-focused app in the United States. The Tick App was designed as a survey tool to collect data on human behaviors and movements associated with tick exposure while engaging users in tick identification and reporting. It consists of an enrollment survey to identify general risk factors, daily surveys to collect data on human activities and tick encounters (Tick Diaries), a survey to enter the details of tick encounters coupled with tick identification services provided by the research team (Report a Tick), and educational material. Using quantitative and qualitative methods, we evaluated the enrollment strategy (passive vs active), the user profile, location, longitudinal use of its features, and users' feedback. Between May and September 2018, 1468 adult users enrolled in the app. The Tick App users were equally represented across genders and evenly distributed across age groups. Most users owned a pet (65.94%, 962/1459; P55 years; IRR 3.4, 95% CI 1.5-7.6; P

3670 http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/healthcare7040114
Differentiating Psychosomatic, Somatopsychic, Multisystem Illnesses, and Medical Uncertainty.
There is often difficulty differentiating between psychosomatic, somatopsychic, multisystem illness, and different degrees of medical uncertainty. Uncommon, complex, and multisystem diseases are commonly misdiagnosed. Two case histories are described, and relevant terms differentiating psychosomatic, somatopsychic, and multisystem illnesses are identified, reviewed, and discussed. Adequate differentiation requires an understanding of the mind/body connection, which includes knowledge of general medicine, psychiatry, and the systems linking the body and the brain. A psychiatric diagnosis cannot be given solely based upon the absence of physical, laboratory, or pathological findings. Medically unexplained symptoms, somatoform disorder, and compensation neurosis are outdated and/or inaccurate terms. The terms subjective, nonspecific, and vague can be used inaccurately. Conversion disorders, functional disorders, psychogenic illness, factitious disorder imposed upon another (Munchausen's syndrome by proxy), somatic symptom disorder, psychogenic seizures, psychogenic pain, psychogenic fatigue, and delusional parasitosis can be over-diagnosed. Bodily distress disorder and bodily distress syndrome are scientifically unsupported and inaccurate. Many "all in your head" conditions may be related to the microbiome and the immune system. Better education concerning the interface between medicine and psychiatry and the associated diagnostic nomenclature as well as utilizing clinical judgment and thorough assessment, exercising humility, and maintaining our roots in traditional medicine will help to improve diagnostic accuracy and patient trust.

3699 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.det.2019.05.004
Diagnosis and Management of Cutaneous B-Cell Lymphomas.
Primary cutaneous B-cell lymphomas are a group of diseases with indolent and aggressive behavior. The goal of the initial workup is to evaluate for systemic involvement, provide adequate staging, and guide therapy. Histopathological studies are a critical part of the workup for classification of these lymphomas because they are similar to their nodal counterparts. There are limited data for treatment guidelines, and thus, therapy differs among institutions. Overall, localized therapies are preferred for indolent types and chemotherapy or immunotherapy for the aggressive forms.

3940 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11356-020-08896-w
Climatic changes and their role in emergence and re-emergence of diseases.
Global warming and the associated climate changes are predictable. They are enhanced by burning of fossil fuels and the emission of huge amounts of CO2 gas which resulted in greenhouse effect. It is expected that the average global temperature will increase with 2-5 °C in the next decades. As a result, the earth will exhibit marked climatic changes characterized by extremer weather events in the coming decades, such as the increase in temperature, rainfall, summertime, droughts, more frequent and stronger tornadoes and hurricanes. Epidemiological disease cycle includes host, pathogen and in certain cases intermediate host/vector. A complex mixture of various environmental conditions (e.g. temperature and humidity) determines the suitable habitat/ecological niche for every vector host. The availability of suitable vectors is a precondition for the emergence of vector-borne pathogens. Climate changes and global warming will have catastrophic effects on human, animal and environmental ecosystems. Pathogens, especially neglected tropical disease agents, are expected to emerge and re-emerge in several countries including Europe and North America. The lives of millions of people especially in developing countries will be at risk in direct and indirect ways. In the present review, the role of climate changes in the spread of infectious agents and their vectors is discussed. Examples of the major emerging viral, bacterial and parasitic diseases are also summarized.

3953 http://dx.doi.org/10.7717/peerj.8937
Establishment of brown anoles (Anolis sagrei) across a southern California county and potential interactions with a native lizard species.
The brown anole, Anolis sagrei, is a native species to the Caribbean; however, A. sagrei has invaded multiple parts of the USA, including Florida, Louisiana, Hawai'i and more recently California. The biological impacts of A. sagrei invading California are currently unknown. Evidence from the invasion in Taiwan shows that they spread quickly and when immediate action is not taken eradication stops being a viable option. In Orange County, California, five urban sites, each less than 100 ha, were surveyed for an average of 49.2 min. Approximately 200 A. sagrei were seen and verified across all survey sites. The paucity of native lizards encountered during the surveys within these sites suggests little to no overlap between the dominant diurnal western fence lizard, Sceloporus occidentalis, and A. sagrei. This notable lack of overlap could indicate a potentially disturbing reality that A. sagrei are driving local extirpations of S. occidentalis.

4008 http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/petr.13657
Cytokine profile in children with food allergy following liver transplantation.
LTX in children is associated with increased risk of food allergy, and the mechanisms underlying this are unknown. We wanted to study whether plasma cytokine profile differed in liver transplanted children, with and without food allergy, and whether it differed from untransplanted children with CLD. Plasma cytokines, total and specific IgE in nine patients with food allergy were compared with 13 patients without food allergy following LTX, and also with seven untransplanted patients with CLD. No difference was found in the cytokine profile between liver transplanted patients with and without food allergy. Transplanted patients with food allergy having received a prescription of epinephrine had a significantly higher total IgE (2033 [234-2831] vs 10 [5-41] IU/L, P = .002) and MIP-1b (52 [37-96] vs 36 [32-39], P = .035) compared with transplanted patients without food allergy. Two patients with severe food allergy responded favorably to conversion from tacrolimus-based immunosuppression to MMF and corticosteroids with reduction in clinical symptoms, total IgE, specific IgE, IL-1ra, IL-4, RANTES, PDGF, MIP-1a, and TNFα. The transplantation group had higher levels of IL-1b, IL-5, IL-7, IL-13, GCSF, IFNγ, and MIP-1a compared with the CLD group. No overall difference was found in plasma cytokine profile between patients with and without food allergy. Patients with severe food allergy had significant elevation of MIP-1b. Discontinuation of tacrolimus reduced total and specific IgE and changed plasma cytokine profile. The plasma cytokine profile in liver transplanted children was different compared with children with CLD.

4072 http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/cid/ciz449
First Recognized Human Bite in the United States by the Asian Longhorned Tick, Haemaphysalis longicornis.
We present the case summary of the first human recognized to have been bitten by the Haemaphysalis longicornis tick in the United States, which occurred in New York State. Subsequent field studies confirmed that this tick was present in multiple geographic locations near the patient's residence, including on manicured lawns.

4149 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jns.2021.117531
Neuroimaging findings in rheumatologic disorders.
Patients with rheumatological diseases may present with neurological manifestations of peripheral and/or central nervous system (CNS). Symptoms may be related to underlying rheumatological disease or CNS effects of immune-modulating drugs. Early diagnosis and therapy may help prevent serious complications. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), given its excellent soft tissue details, is the preferred imaging modality when evaluating patients with rheumatological disease and suspected CNS involvement. We present a review of the neuroimaging manifestations of various rheumatic diseases with emphasis on the imaging findings on MRI.

4207 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.pt.2021.03.008
Convergence Research for Emerging Zoonoses.
Global emergence of vector-borne and zoonotic diseases presents a rapidly growing 'wicked' problem. We outline the need for a transdisciplinary research program that is grounded in ecological and evolutionary theory but integrates fundamentally with research perspectives spanning the health, social, and natural sciences.

4276 http://dx.doi.org/10.1128/aem.02668-20
Tick Microbiomes in Neotropical Forest Fragments Are Best Explained by Tick-Associated and Environmental Factors Rather than Host Blood Source.
The composition of tick microbiomes varies both within and among tick species. Whether this variation is intrinsic (related to tick characteristics) or extrinsic (related to vertebrate host and habitat) is poorly understood but important, as microbiota can influence the reproductive success and vector competence of ticks. We aimed to uncover what intrinsic and extrinsic factors best explain the microbial composition and taxon richness of 11 species of neotropical ticks collected from eight species of small mammals in 18 forest fragments across central Panama. Microbial richness varied among tick species, life stages, and collection sites but was not related to host blood source. Microbiome composition was best explained by tick life stage, with bacterial assemblages of larvae being a subset of those of nymphs. Collection site explained most of the bacterial taxa with differential abundance across intrinsic and extrinsic factors. Francisella and Rickettsia were highly prevalent, but their proportional abundance differed greatly among tick species, and we found both positive and negative cooccurrence between members of these two genera. Other tick endosymbionts (e.g., Coxiella and Rickettsiella) were associated with specific tick species. In addition, we detected Anaplasma and Bartonella in several tick species. Our results indicate that the microbial composition and richness of neotropical ticks are principally related to intrinsic factors (tick species and life stage) and collection site. Taken together, our analysis informs how tick microbiomes are structured and can help anchor our understanding of tick microbiomes from tropical environments more broadly.IMPORTANCE Blood-feeding arthropod microbiomes often play important roles in disease transmission, yet the factors that structure tick microbial communities in the Neotropics are unknown. Utilizing ticks collected from live animals in neotropical forest fragments, this study teases apart the contributions of intrinsic and extrinsic tick-associated factors on tick microbial composition as well as which specific microbes contribute to differences across tick species, tick life stages, the mammals they fed on, and the locations from where they were sampled. Furthermore, this study provides revelations of how notable tick-associated bacterial genera are interacting with other tick-associated microbes as well as the forest animals they encounter.

4429 http://dx.doi.org/10.7146/tifo.v5i1.25000
Hizb’allahs råderum i transnationale shia islamiske magtstrukturer
Lige siden Hizb’allah første gang fandt vej til alverdens forsider for et kvart århundrede siden, har den Islamiske Republik Iran og ayat’allah Muhammed Hussein Fadlallahs indflydelse på organisationen været genstand for megen debat. Artiklen foreslår, at en diskursanalytisk og kritisk diskursanalytisk forståelse af religiøse magtstrukturer kan være med til at nuancere forståelsen af Hizb’allahs aktørråderum og relationskomplekser. Der argumenteres således for, at organisationen er underlagt wali al-faqihs autoritet, men i de senere år har udviklet stadig større frihedsgrader. I udfyldelsen heraf har marja al-taqlid Muhammed Hussein Fadlallah været en vigtig inspirationskilde, om end organisationen officielt følger Ali al-Khamenis marjaiyyat. Som konsekvens har organisationens medlemmers hverdag på mange områder været mere præget af maraji altaqlid, Ali al-Sistani og afdøde Muhammed Hussein Fadlallah end af Ali al-Khamenei.

4546 http://dx.doi.org/10.24966/dmd-201x/100032
Does Diabetes increase Joint Pain? - A Review
Diabetes mellitus (DM) consists of a group of metabolic diseases characterized by hyperglycaemia or elevated levels of blood glucose. People with diabetes suffer from a number of disorders that can cause dysfunction and joint pain, which can reduce their quality of life. The aim of this review is to discuss if diabetes increases joint pain. This review also looks at the mechanisms through which diabetes contributes to joint pain.

4579 http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/ofid/ofaa166
Disseminated Intravascular Infection Caused by Paecilomyces variotii: Case Report and Review of the Literature
 Paecilomyces variotii is a ubiquitous environmental saprophyte with worldwide distribution. Commonly found in soil and decomposing organic material [1, 2], P. variotii can also be isolated from drinking water [3] and indoor and outdoor air [4–6]. In immunocompetent hosts, P. variotii has been reported as a cause of locally invasive disease including prosthetic valve endocarditis [7, 8], endophthalmitis [9, 10], rhinosinusitis [11, 12], and dialysis-associated peritonitis [13, 14]. In contrast, disseminated infections are more commonly reported in immunocompromised patients, including those with chronic granulomatous disease [15], solid malignancy [16], acute leukemia [17], lymphoma [18], multiple myeloma [19], and after stem cell transplant for myelodysplasia [20]. In 1 case series examining invasive infections by non-Aspergillus molds, P. variotii was the most common cause after Fusarium spp. [21]. Here, we present the case of an immunocompetent patient with extensive intravascular infection involving prosthetic material. We describe successful induction therapy with combination antifungals and extended suppression with posaconazole with clinical quiescence and eventual normalization of serum fungal biomarkers.

4584 http://dx.doi.org/10.1128/mbio.01293-20
Upregulation of CD47 Is a Host Checkpoint Response to Pathogen Recognition
Immune responses to infectious agents are initiated when a pathogen or its components bind to pattern recognition receptors (PRRs). PRR binding sets off a cascade of events that activates immune responses. We now show that, in addition to activating immune responses, PRR signaling also initiates an immunosuppressive response, probably to limit inflammation. The importance of the current findings is that blockade of immunomodulatory signaling, which is mediated by the upregulation of the CD47 molecule, can lead to enhanced immune responses to any pathogen that triggers PRR signaling. Since most or all pathogens trigger PRRs, CD47 blockade could be used to speed up and strengthen both innate and adaptive immune responses when medically indicated. Such immunotherapy could be done without a requirement for knowing the HLA type of the individual, the specific antigens of the pathogen, or, in the case of bacterial infections, the antimicrobial resistance profile.

4600 http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/pathogens10060718
Antibiotic Susceptibility of Bartonella Grown in Different Culture Conditions
Bartonellosis is caused by a Gram-negative intracellular bacterium with a zoonotic transmission. The disease, caused by any of several genospecies of Bartonella can range from a benign, self-limited condition to a highly morbid and life-threatening illness. The current standard of care antibiotics are generally effective in acute infection; these include azithromycin or erythromycin, doxycycline, gentamicin, rifampin, and ciprofloxacin. However, treatment of chronic infection remains problematic. We tested six different antibiotics for their ability to stop the growth of Bartonella sp. in the standard insect media and in an enrichment media. All antibiotics (ceftriaxone, doxycycline, gentamycin, azithromycin, ampicillin, and azlocillin) had minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) below 0.5 μg/mL in the BAPGM enrichment media but were ineffective at inhibiting growth when the standard insect media was used. Azlocillin was the most potent, with a MIC of 0.01 μg/mL. When Bartonella was tested under intracellular growth conditions, none of the antibiotics were efficacious singly. However, growth inhibition was observed when azlocillin and azithromycin were combined. These studies illustrate the impact of growth medium and intracellular environment on antibiotic susceptibility testing and indicate that azlocillin combined with azithromycin may be an effective drug combination for the treatment of Bartonellosis.

4717 http://dx.doi.org/10.1128/iai.71.9.5324-5331.2003
Ehrlichia chaffeensis and Anaplasma phagocytophilum lack genes for lipid A biosynthesis and incorporate cholesterol for their survival
Ehrlichia chaffeensis and Anaplasma phagocytophilum are agents of human monocytic and granulocytic ehrlichioses, respectively. They are extremely sensitive to mechanical stress and are pleomorphic gram-negative bacteria. Membrane incorporation of cholesterol from the eukaryotic host is known to be essential for other fragile and pleomorphic bacteria and mycoplasmas that lack a cell wall. Thus, we tested whether cholesterol is required for E. chaffeensis and A. phagocytophilum . Using a freeze fracture technique and biochemical analysis, these bacteria were found to contain significant levels of membrane cholesterol. These bacteria lack genes for cholesterol biosynthesis or modification. However, host cell-free bacteria had the ability to take up directly exogenous cholesterol or NBD-cholesterol, a fluorescent cholesterol derivative. Treatment of the bacteria with cholesterol extraction reagent methyl-β-cyclodextrin caused their ultrastructural changes. Furthermore, pretreatment of the bacteria with methyl-β-cyclodextrin or NBD-cholesterol deprived these bacteria of the ability to infect leukocytes, thus killing these obligate intracellular bacteria. Analysis of E. chaffeensis and A. phagocytophilum genome sequences revealed that these bacteria lack all genes for the biosynthesis of lipid A and most genes for the biosynthesis of peptidoglycan, which confer structural strength to gram-negative bacteria. Taken together, these results suggest that human ehrlichiosis agents became cholesterol dependent due to the loss of these genes. As the first report of gram-negative bacteria incorporating cholesterol for survival, these findings offer insight into the unique nature of their parasitism and imply that cholesterol is important in the control of human ehrlichioses.

4719 http://dx.doi.org/10.1128/iai.72.3.1537-1547.2004
The Burkholderia cepacia Epidemic Strain Marker Is Part of A Novel Genomic Island Encoding Both Virulence and Metabolism-Associated Genes in Burkholderia cenocepacia
The Burkholderia cepacia epidemic strain marker (BCESM) is a useful epidemiological marker for virulent B. cenocepacia strains that infect patients with cystic fibrosis. However, there was no evidence that the original marker, identified by random amplified polymorphic DNA fingerprinting, contributed to pathogenicity. Here we demonstrate that the BCESM is part of a novel genomic island encoding genes linked to both virulence and metabolism. The BCESM was present on a 31.7-kb low-GC-content island that encoded 35 predicted coding sequences (CDSs): an N -acyl homoserine lactone (AHL) synthase gene ( cciI ) and corresponding transcriptional regulator ( cciR ), representing the first time cell signaling genes have been found on a genomic island; fatty acid biosynthesis genes; an IS 66 family transposase; transcriptional regulator CDSs; amino acid metabolism genes; and a group of hypothetical genes. Mutagenesis of the AHL synthase, amidase ( amiI ), and porin ( opcI ) genes on the island was carried out. Testing of the isogenic mutants in a rat model of chronic lung infection demonstrated that the amidase played a role in persistence, while the AHL synthase and porin were both involved in virulence. The island, designated the B. cenocepacia island (cci), is the first genomic island to be defined in the B. cepacia complex and its discovery validates the original epidemiological correlation of the BCESM with virulent CF strains. The features of the cci, which overlap both pathogenicity and metabolism, expand the concept of bacterial pathogenicity islands and illustrate the diversity of accessory functions that can be acquired by lateral gene transfer in bacteria.

4759 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1756-3305-4-192
Towards an integrated approach in surveillance of vector-borne diseases in Europe
Vector borne disease (VBD) emergence is a complex and dynamic process. Interactions between multiple disciplines and responsible health and environmental authorities are often needed for an effective early warning, surveillance and control of vectors and the diseases they transmit. To fully appreciate this complexity, integrated knowledge about the human and the vector population is desirable. In the current paper, important parameters and terms of both public health and medical entomology are defined in order to establish a common language that facilitates collaboration between the two disciplines. Special focus is put on the different VBD contexts with respect to the current presence or absence of the disease, the pathogen and the vector in a given location. Depending on the context, whether a VBD is endemic or not, surveillance activities are required to assess disease burden or threat, respectively. Following a decision for action, surveillance activities continue to assess trends.

4768 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s13071-014-0490-x
Detection and characterization of zoonotic pathogens of free-ranging non-human primates from Zambia
Background. Wildlife may harbor infectious pathogens that are of zoonotic concern acting as a reservoir of diseases transmissible to humans and domestic animals. This is due to human-wildlife conflicts that have become more frequent and severe over recent decades, competition for the available natural habitats and resources leading to increased human encroachment on previously wild and uninhabited areas. Methods. A total of 88 spleen DNA samples from baboons and vervet monkeys from Zambia were tested for zoonotic pathogens using genus or species-specific PCR. The amplified products were then subjected to sequencing analysis. Results. We detected three different pathogenic agents, including Anaplasma phagocytophilum in 12 samples (13.6%), Rickettsia spp . in 35 samples (39.8%) and Babesia spp . in 2 samples (2.3%). Conclusion. The continuously increasing contacts between humans and primate populations raise concerns about transmission of pathogens between these groups. Therefore, increased medical and public awareness and public health surveillance support will be required to detect and control infections caused by these agents at the interface between humans and wildlife.

4788 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s13071-021-04887-z
First hemispheric report of invasive tick species Haemaphysalis punctata, first state report of Haemaphysalis longicornis, and range expansion of native tick …
Background. Invasive arthropod vectors and the range expansions of native vectors can lead to public and veterinary health concerns, as these vectors may introduce novel pathogens or spread endemic pathogens to new locations. Recent tick invasions and range expansion in the USA has been attributed to climate and land use change, an increase in global travel, and importations of exotic animals. Methods. A 10-year surveillance study was conducted on Block Island, Rhode Island, from 2010 to 2020 including sampling ticks from small mammal and avian hosts. Results. We report the discovery and establishment of the red sheep tick ( Haemaphysalis punctata ) for the first time in the western hemisphere and in the US. This invasive species was first collected in 2010 on Block Island, was collected continuously throughout the study, and was collected from an avian host. We document the first report of the invasive Asian longhorned tick ( Haemaphysalis longicornis ) in the state of Rhode Island, first observed at our sites in 2018. Finally, we present data on the range expansion and establishment of two native tick species, the lone star tick and the rabbit tick, on Block Island. Conclusion. This study emphasized the importance of long-term surveillance to detect changes in tick host communities, including invasive and expanding native vectors of potential significance to humans and wildlife. Graphical abstract.

4789 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s13071-021-04944-7
Recreational behaviour, risk perceptions, and protective practices against ticks: a cross-sectional comparative study before and during the lockdown enforced …
Background. Gaining insight into the risk perceptions and the knowledge evolution of the public about emerging or changing health risks is vital for the improvement of health promotion activities. Currently, scientific evidence regarding the attitudes of the Romanian public towards ticks is scanty. This study aimed to identify how the lockdown enforced by the COVID-19 pandemic in Romania impacted the recreational behaviour, risk perceptions, and protective practices of the Romanian population regarding ticks. Methods. A cross-sectional, nationwide web-based questionnaire was designed and distributed via social media to evaluate if, and how, the COVID-19 lockdown impacted the behaviour of the Romanian public concerning ticks. The survey was available online from 6 May until 15 May 2020, which marked the last day of the travel ban in Romania. The collected data were processed by applying both uni- and multivariate methods. Results. Respondents reported a higher frequency of finding ticks on themselves and their dogs during the lockdown. Bathing/showering and checking the body for ticks were the two most used protective behaviours both before and during the lockdown. Nevertheless, an overall lower usage rate of protective measures was registered during the lockdown. Almost all dog owners used a form of ectoparasite control for their dogs, and only three stopped due to lockdown-associated reasons. Respondent characteristics that were found to be positively associated with risk perceptions were being female and living in peri-urban/suburban/rural environments. Conclusions. Despite spending less time outdoors during the lockdown, more respondents reported finding ticks on themselves or their dogs. Changes in the preferences for recreational locations, rates of protective practices usage, amount of time spent in specific areas, or tick seasonal activity might have contributed to this outcome. Concerning risk groups, men of all ages, senior citizens, and rural inhabitants should be targeted by the relevant Romanian authorities when promoting local or nationwide tick awareness campaigns. Graphical abstract.

4829 http://dx.doi.org/10.1128/jcm.38.10.3750-3754.2000
Utilization of exocellular mannan from Rhodotorula glutinis as an immunoreactive antigen in diagnosis of leptospirosis
Previously, Rhodotorula glutinis was reported to produce a large amount of exocellular mannan, having a repeating unit of →3)- d -Man p -(1→4)- d -Man p -(1→. Recently, we found that antigenic polysaccharides of Leptospira biflexa serovar patoc strain Patoc I have the same repeating unit and cross-react with antisera raised against extended strains of other leptospires (K. Matsuo, E. Isogai, and Y. Araki, Carbohydr. Res., in press). This structural identity and the difficulty of producing and isolating antigens led us to confirm the usefulness of Rhodotorula mannan as an immunoreactive antigen in a serological diagnosis of leptospirosis. In the present investigation, we confirmed the structural identity of an exocellular mannan isolated from R. glutinis AHU 3479 and tried to use it as an immunoreactive antigen in a serological diagnosis of leptospirosis. From its chemical analysis and 1 H- and 13 C-labeled nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry, the Rhodotorula mannan was confirmed to consist of the same disaccharide units. Furthermore, such a preparation was shown to immunoreact to various sera from patients suffering with leptospirosis as well as to most rabbit antiserum preparations obtained from immunization with various strains of pathogenic leptospires. Therefore, the Rhodotorula mannan preparation is useful as an immunoreactive antigen in the serological diagnosis for leptospirosis.

4840 http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0011414
Vitamin C: Intravenous use by complementary and alternative medicine practitioners and adverse effects
Background Anecdotal information and case reports suggest that intravenously administered vitamin C is used by Complementary and Alternate Medicine (CAM) practitioners. The scale of such use in the U.S. and associated side effects are unknown. Methods and Findings We surveyed attendees at annual CAM Conferences in 2006 and 2008, and determined sales of intravenous vitamin C by major U.S. manufacturers/distributors. We also queried practitioners for side effects, compiled published cases, and analyzed FDA's Adverse Events Database. Of 199 survey respondents (out of 550), 172 practitioners administered IV vitamin C to 11,233 patients in 2006 and 8876 patients in 2008. Average dose was 28 grams every 4 days, with 22 total treatments per patient. Estimated yearly doses used (as 25g/50ml vials) were 318,539 in 2006 and 354,647 in 2008. Manufacturers' yearly sales were 750,000 and 855,000 vials, respectively. Common reasons for treatment included infection, cancer, and fatigue. Of 9,328 patients for whom data is available, 101 had side effects, mostly minor, including lethargy/fatigue in 59 patients, change in mental status in 21 patients and vein irritation/phlebitis in 6 patients. Publications documented serious adverse events, including 2 deaths in patients known to be at risk for IV vitamin C. Due to confounding causes, the FDA Adverse Events Database was uninformative. Total numbers of patients treated in the US with high dose vitamin C cannot be accurately estimated from this study. Conclusions High dose IV vitamin C is in unexpectedly wide use by CAM practitioners. Other than the known complications of IV vitamin C in those with renal impairment or glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, high dose intravenous vitamin C appears to be remarkably safe. Physicians should inquire about IV vitamin C use in patients with cancer, chronic, untreatable, or intractable conditions and be observant of unexpected harm, drug interactions, or benefit.

4847 http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0068338
Multi-Criteria Decision Analysis Tools for Prioritising Emerging or Re-Emerging Infectious Diseases Associated with Climate Change in Canada
Global climate change is known to result in the emergence or re-emergence of some infectious diseases. Reliable methods to identify the infectious diseases of humans and animals and that are most likely to be influenced by climate are therefore required. Since different priorities will affect the decision to address a particular pathogen threat, decision makers need a standardised method of prioritisation. Ranking methods and Multi-Criteria Decision approaches provide such a standardised method and were employed here to design two different pathogen prioritisation tools. The opinion of 64 experts was elicited to assess the importance of 40 criteria that could be used to prioritise emerging infectious diseases of humans and animals in Canada. A weight was calculated for each criterion according to the expert opinion. Attributes were defined for each criterion as a transparent and repeatable method of measurement. Two different Multi-Criteria Decision Analysis tools were tested, both of which used an additive aggregation approach. These were an Excel spreadsheet tool and a tool developed in software ‘M-MACBETH’. The tools were trialed on nine ‘test’ pathogens. Two different methods of criteria weighting were compared, one using fixed weighting values, the other using probability distributions to account for uncertainty and variation in expert opinion. The ranking of the nine pathogens varied according to the weighting method that was used. In both tools, using both weighting methods, the diseases that tended to rank the highest were West Nile virus, Giardiasis and Chagas, while Coccidioidomycosis tended to rank the lowest. Both tools are a simple and user friendly approach to prioritising pathogens according to climate change by including explicit scoring of 40 criteria and incorporating weighting methods based on expert opinion. They provide a dynamic interactive method that can help to identify pathogens for which a full risk assessment should be pursued.

4852 http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0089945
Kappa free light chains: Diagnostic and prognostic relevance in MS and CIS
Background Quantification of kappa free light chains (KFLC) in cerebrospinal fluid shows high diagnostic sensitivity in multiple sclerosis and clinically isolated syndrome patients. However, a clearly defined threshold value is still missing and a possible prognostic value of the KFLC levels in these patients remains undefined. Methods Results of KFLC quantification in 420 controls were used to set an upper limit of normal KFLC concentration in CSF under different blood-CSF-barrier conditions. Additionally, KFLC values of MS and CIS patients were assessed and results were evaluated with reference to the patients corresponding disease courses. Results The calculated upper limit of normal KFLC-concentration covers 98% of these control patients. Using this cut-off, plasma cell activity in CSF can be detected in 97% of MS patients and in 97% of CIS patients. However, there is no evidence that the extent of KFLC elevation provides prognostic value in MS and CIS patients in this study. Conclusion KFLC determination should become a first line screen in the diagnostic algorithms of MS and CIS. The extent of elevation of intrathecal KFLC has no prognostic value on the disease course in MS and CIS patients.

4879 http://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid1206.05879
Raccoons and skunks as sentinels for enzootic tularemia
 We analyzed sera from diverse mammals of Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts, for evidence of Francisella tularensis exposure. Skunks and raccoons were frequently seroreactive, whereas white-footed mice, cottontail rabbits, deer, rats, and dogs were not. Tularemia surveillance may be facilitated by focusing on skunks and raccoons.

4885 http://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2110.150143
Human infection with ehrlichia muris–like pathogen, United States, 2007–2013
 An Ehrlichia muris– like (EML) pathogen was detected among 4 patients in Minnesota and Wisconsin during 2009. We characterized additional cases clinically and epidemiologically. During 2004–2013, blood samples from 75,077 patients from all 50 United States were tested by PCR from the groEL gene for Ehrlichia spp. and Anaplasma phagocytophilum . During 2007–2013, samples from 69 (0.1%) patients were positive for the EML pathogen; patients were from 5 states: Indiana (1), Michigan (1), Minnesota (33), North Dakota (3), and Wisconsin (31). Most (64%) patients were male; median age was 63 (range 15–94) years; and all 69 patients reported likely tick exposure in Minnesota or Wisconsin. Fever, malaise, thrombocytopenia, and lymphopenia were the most common symptoms. Sixteen (23%) patients were hospitalized (median 4 days); all recovered, and 96% received doxycycline. Infection with the EML pathogen should be considered for persons reporting tick exposure in Minnesota or Wisconsin.

4887 http://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2202.151416
Uveitis and systemic inflammatory markers in convalescent phase of Ebola virus disease
 We report a case of probable Zaire Ebola virus–related ophthalmologic complications in a physician from the United States who contracted Ebola virus disease in Liberia. Uveitis, immune activation, and nonspecific increase in antibody titers developed during convalescence. This case highlights immune phenomena that could complicate management of Ebola virus disease–related uveitis during convalescence.

4892 http://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2602.191218
Acute toxoplasmosis among canadian deer hunters associated with consumption of undercooked deer meat hunted in the United States
 We conducted a recent investigation in Quebec, Canada, concerning Canadian deer hunters who went to the United States to hunt deer and returned with symptoms of fever, severe headache, myalgia, and articular pain of undetermined etiology. Further investigation identified that a group of 10 hunters from Quebec attended a hunting retreat in Illinois (USA) during November 22–December 4, 2018. Six of the 10 hunters had similar symptoms and illness onset dates. Serologic tests indicated a recent toxoplasmosis infection for all symptomatic hunters, and the risk factor identified was consumption of undercooked deer meat. Among asymptomatic hunters, 2 were already immune to toxoplasmosis, 1 was not immune, and the immune status of 1 remains unknown. Outbreaks of acute toxoplasmosis infection are rare in North America, but physicians should be aware that such outbreaks could become more common.

4896 http://dx.doi.org/10.1056/nejmoa050156
Randomized trial of lifestyle modification and pharmacotherapy for obesity
Background Weight-loss medications are recommended as an adjunct to a comprehensive program of diet, exercise, and behavior therapy but are typically prescribed with minimal or no lifestyle modification. This practice is likely to limit therapeutic benefits. Methods In this one-year trial, we randomly assigned 224 obese adults to receive 15 mg of sibutramine per day alone, delivered by a primary care provider in eight visits of 10 to 15 minutes each; lifestyle-modification counseling alone, delivered in 30 group sessions; sibutramine plus 30 group sessions of lifestyle-modification counseling (i.e., combined therapy); or sibutramine plus brief lifestyle-modification counseling delivered by a primary care provider in eight visits of 10 to 15 minutes each. All subjects were prescribed a diet of 1200 to 1500 kcal per day and the same exercise regimen. Results At one year, subjects who received combined therapy lost a mean (±SD) of 12.1±9.8 kg, whereas those receiving sibutramine alone lost 5.0±7.4 kg, those treated by lifestyle modification alone lost 6.7±7.9 kg, and those receiving sibutramine plus brief therapy lost 7.5±8.0 kg (P<0.001). Those in the combined-therapy group who frequently recorded their food intake lost more weight than those who did so infrequently (18.1±9.8 kg vs. 7.7±7.5 kg, P=0.04). Conclusions The combination of medication and group lifestyle modification resulted in more weight loss than either medication or lifestyle modification alone. The results underscore the importance of prescribing weight-loss medications in combination with, rather than in lieu of, lifestyle modification. 

4899 http://dx.doi.org/10.1056/nejm200107123450205
Neighborhood of residence and incidence of coronary heart disease
Background Where a person lives is not usually thought of as an independent predictor of his or her health, although physical and social features of places of residence may affect health and health-related behavior. Methods Using data from the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities Study, we examined the relation between characteristics of neighborhoods and the incidence of coronary heart disease. Participants were 45 to 64 years of age at base line and were sampled from four study sites in the United States: Forsyth County, North Carolina; Jackson, Mississippi; the northwestern suburbs of Minneapolis; and Washington County, Maryland. As proxies for neighborhoods, we used block groups containing an average of 1000 people, as defined by the U.S. Census. We constructed a summary score for the socioeconomic environment of each neighborhood that included information about wealth and income, education, and occupation. Results During a median of 9.1 years of follow-up, 615 coronary events occurred in 13,009 participants. Residents of disadvantaged neighborhoods (those with lower summary scores) had a higher risk of disease than residents of advantaged neighborhoods, even after we controlled for personal income, education, and occupation. Hazard ratios for coronary heart disease among low-income persons living in the most disadvantaged neighborhoods, as compared with high-income persons in the most advantaged neighborhoods, were 3.1 among whites (95 percent confidence interval, 2.1 to 4.8) and 2.5 among blacks (95 percent confidence interval, 1.4 to 4.5). These associations remained unchanged after adjustment for established risk factors for coronary heart disease. Conclusions Even after controlling for personal income, education, and occupation, we found that living in a disadvantaged neighborhood is associated with an increased incidence of coronary heart disease. 

4900 http://dx.doi.org/10.1056/nejm200107123450203
Neointimal and tubulointerstitial infiltration by recipient mesenchymal cells in chronic renal-allograft rejection
Background Tissue remodeling depends on mesenchymal cells (fibroblasts and myofibroblasts) and is a prominent feature of chronic renal-transplant rejection. It is not known whether the mesenchymal cells that participate in remodeling originate locally or from circulating precursor cells. Methods We obtained biopsy specimens of renal allografts from six male recipients of an allograft from a female donor, four female recipients of an allograft from a male donor, two male recipients of an allograft from a male donor, and two female recipients of an allograft from a female donor. All the allografts were undergoing chronic rejection. We used immunohistochemical methods to identify mesenchymal cells with smooth-muscle α-actin and in situ hybridization to identify mesenchymal cells with Y-chromosome DNA. Results No Y-chromosome bodies were identified in the case of the two renal-allograft specimens in which both the donor and the recipient were female. In the case of the two renal-allograft specimens in which both the donor and the recipient were male, approximately 40 percent of mesenchymal cells contained a Y-chromosome body. In the case of the six specimens in which the donor was female and the recipient was male, a mean (±SD) of 34±16 percent of mesenchymal cells in the neointima, 38±12 percent of such cells in the adventitia, and 30±7 percent of such cells in the interstitium contained the Y-chromosomal marker, indicating that they originated from the recipient rather than the donor. In the case of the four renal-allograft specimens in which the donor was male and the recipient was female, the respective values were 24±15 percent, 33±9 percent, and 23±8 percent, indicating a persistent population of donor mesenchymal cells. Conclusions The presence of mesenchymal cells of host origin in the vascular and interstitial compartments of renal allografts undergoing chronic rejection provides evidence that a circulating mesenchymal precursor cell has the potential to migrate to areas of inflammation. 

4901 http://dx.doi.org/10.1056/nejmoa021931
Itraconazole to prevent fungal infections in chronic granulomatous disease
Background Chronic granulomatous disease is a rare disorder in which the phagocytes fail to produce hydrogen peroxide. The patients are predisposed to bacterial and fungal infections. Prophylactic antibiotics and interferon gamma have reduced bacterial infections, but there is also the danger of life-threatening fungal infections. We assessed the efficacy of itraconazole as prophylaxis against serious fungal infections in chronic granulomatous disease. Methods Thirty-nine patients at least 5 years old (6 female and 33 male; mean age, 14.9 years) were enrolled in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. After the initially assigned treatment, each patient alternated between itraconazole and placebo annually. Patients 13 years of age or older and all patients weighing at least 50 kg received a single dose of 200 mg of itraconazole per day; those less than 13 years old or weighing less than 50 kg received a single dose of 100 mg per day. The primary end point was severe fungal infection, as determined by histologic results or culture. Results One patient (who had not been compliant with the treatment) had a serious fungal infection while receiving itraconazole, as compared with seven who had a serious fungal infection while receiving placebo (P=0.10). No patient receiving itraconazole but five patients receiving placebo had a superficial fungal infection. No serious toxic effects were noted, although one patient had a rash and another had elevated results on liver-function tests; both of these effects resolved with the discontinuation of itraconazole. Conclusions Itraconazole prophylaxis appears to be an effective and well-tolerated treatment that reduces the frequency of fungal infections in chronic granulomatous disease, but monitoring for long-term toxic effects is warranted. 

4902 http://dx.doi.org/10.1056/nejmoa022473
Standard and increased-dose BEACOPP chemotherapy compared with COPP-ABVD for advanced Hodgkin's disease
Background Faced with unsatisfactory results of treatment for advanced Hodgkin's disease, we investigated three combinations of chemotherapy. Methods From 1993 to 1998, 1201 eligible patients 15 to 65 years of age who had newly diagnosed Hodgkin's disease in unfavorable stage IIB or IIIA or stage IIIB or IV were randomly assigned to receive eight cycles of cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone alternating with doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (COPP-ABVD); bleomycin, etoposide, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone (BEACOPP); or increased-dose BEACOPP, each followed by local radiotherapy when indicated. Enrollment in the COPP-ABVD group was stopped in 1996 owing to inferior results. Results For the final analysis, 1195 of 1201 patients could be evaluated: 260 in the COPP-ABVD group, 469 in the BEACOPP group, and 466 in the increased-dose BEACOPP group; the median follow-up was 72, 54, and 51 months, respectively. The rate of freedom from treatment failure at five years was 69 percent in the COPP-ABVD group, 76 percent in the BEACOPP group, and 87 percent in the increased-dose BEACOPP group (P=0.04 for the comparison of the COPP-ABVD group with the BEACOPP group and P<0.001 for the comparison of the increased-dose BEACOPP group with the COPP-ABVD group and with the BEACOPP group), and the five-year rates of overall survival were 83 percent, 88 percent, and 91 percent, respectively (P=0.16 for the comparison of the COPP-ABVD group with the BEACOPP group, P=0.06 for the comparison of the BEACOPP group with the increased-dose BEACOPP group, and P=0.002 for the comparison of the COPP-ABVD group with the increased-dose BEACOPP group). Rates of early progression were significantly lower with increased-dose BEACOPP than with COPP-ABVD or standard BEACOPP. Conclusions Increased-dose BEACOPP resulted in better tumor control and overall survival than did COPP-ABVD. 

4920 http://dx.doi.org/10.1089/vbz.2007.0199
No evidence of deer mouse involvement in plague (Yersinia pestis) epizootics in prairie dogs
Plague, the disease caused by the bacterium Yersinia pestis , can have devastating impacts on black-tailed prairie dog ( Cynomys ludovicianus ) colonies. One suggested mechanism behind sporadic prairie dog die-offs involves an alternative mammal host, such as the deer mouse ( Peromyscus maniculatus ), which often inhabits prairie dog colonies. We examined the flea populations of deer mice to investigate the potential of flea-borne transmission of plague between deer mice and prairie dogs in northern Colorado, where plague is active in prairie dog colonies. Deer mice were predominantly infested with the flea Aetheca wagneri , and were rarely infested with prairie dog fleas, Oropsylla hirsuta . Likelihood of flea infestation increased with average monthly temperature, and flea loads were higher in reproductive animals. These results suggest that the deer mouse is an unlikely maintenance host of plague in this region.

4956 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s13071-016-1547-9
Vasculitis, cerebral infarction and persistent Bartonella henselae infection in a child
Background. The genus Bartonella is comprised of a rapidly increasing number of pathogenic species that induce a seemingly diverse spectrum of neurological symptoms. During the 12 year period that followed the initial onset of neurological and gastrointestinal symptoms, an 11 year-old girl experienced a spectrum of neurological complaints including frequent headaches, visual and auditory hallucinations, anxiety, vision loss involving the lower left quadrant of both eyes, episodic bouts of generalized paralysis, facial palsy, chronic insomnia, seizures, dizziness, cognitive dysfunction, and memory loss. PCR assays targeting Bartonella spp. were used to test formalin-fixed, paraffin embedded brain tissue, patient blood specimens and Bartonella alpha Proteobacteria growth medium (BAPGM) enrichment blood cultures. PCR positive amplicons were sequenced directly and compared to GenBank sequences. Bartonella spp. serology was performed by indirect fluorescent antibody testing and confocal laser scanning microscopy was used to visualize B. henselae organisms in resected brain. Results. Bartonella henselae DNA was independently PCR amplified and sequenced from the girl’s right parietal lobe, surgically resected in 2000 and from a blood specimen collected in 2012. Although causation cannot be established by a case report, prior diagnostic testing resulted in findings that were either inconclusive or within normal reference ranges and no etiological diagnosis had been obtained to explain the patient’s initial or progressive neurological symptoms. Conclusions. As intravascular, intra-erythrocytic and endotheliotropic bacteria, it is possible that B. henselae initially induced a vasculitis, resulting in secondary cerebral infarction, tissue necrosis and surgical resection. Bartonella bacteremia, potentially spanning a 12-year time frame, in conjunction with the therapeutic administration of immunosuppressive drugs may have resulted in a progression and potentiation of the neurological disease that was partially reversible following antibiotic administration.

4976 http://dx.doi.org/10.1212/wnl.62.12.2297
Doxycycline and intracranial hypertension
 The authors report seven patients from six neuro-ophthalmology referral centers who developed pseudo-tumor cerebri during treatment with doxycycline. All four female patients and one of three male patients were obese. Vision was minimally affected in most patients, but two had substantial visual acuity or visual field loss at presentation. Discontinuation of doxycycline, with or without additional intracranial pressure-lowering agents, yielded improvement, but permanent visual acuity or visual field loss occurred in five patients.

4978 http://dx.doi.org/10.1212/01.wnl.0000259403.31527.ef
Differential diagnosis and evaluation in pediatric multiple sclerosis
 The differential diagnosis for multiple sclerosis (MS) in childhood and adolescence includes infectious, inflammatory, and neoplastic disorders as well as metabolic neurogenetic leukodystrophies, toxic leukodystrophies, and vascular conditions. The evaluation is determined by the clinical and neuroradiologic presentation. A minimal diagnostic battery is proposed. More expanded evaluations are indicated for specific or atypical clinical presentations.

5001 http://dx.doi.org/10.1128/cvi.00211-16
Immunoglobulin M for acute infection: True or false?
Immunoglobulin M (IgM) tests have clear clinical utility but also suffer disproportionately from false-positive results, which in turn can lead to misdiagnoses, inappropriate therapy, and premature closure of a diagnostic workup. Despite numerous reports in the literature, many clinicians and laboratorians remain unaware of this issue. In this brief review, a series of virology case examples is presented. However, a false-positive IgM can occur with any pathogen. Thus, when an accurate diagnosis is essential for therapy, prognosis, infection control, or public health, when the patient is sick enough to be hospitalized, or when the clinical or epidemiologic findings do not fit, IgM detection should not be accepted as a stand-alone test. Rather, whenever possible, the diagnosis should be confirmed by other means, including testing of serial samples and the application of additional test methods.

5011 http://dx.doi.org/10.1542/peds.2004-2687
Vaccine adverse event reporting system reporting source: A possible source of bias in longitudinal studies
 OBJECTIVE. The US Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) is a passive reporting system to which anyone can report an event. Publicity related to potential adverse events may change reporting patterns. The objective of this paper is to show how litigation-related reports have influenced the trends in possible adverse event reports to VAERS. METHODS. The VAERS public-use data files were downloaded in July 2004 and translated into identical SAS data sets for analysis. Cases that were related to litigation were identified using a word search algorithm. All cases for the most frequently reported symptoms in litigation (overdose, neuropathy, autism, “mental retardation,” arthralgia, and “speech disorder”) were reviewed. RESULTS. In recent years, most case reports to VAERS that were related to overdose, neuropathy, and thimerosal were related to litigation. Many cases that were related to autism and mental retardation were as well. CONCLUSIONS. This review shows a previously undisclosed rise in the number of reports to the VAERS related to pending litigation for vaccine injury. The implications of this for understanding longitudinal reporting patterns are discussed.

5033 http://dx.doi.org/10.1097/inf.0b013e318296b24b
Rickettsia spp. 364D causing a cluster of eschar-associated illness, California
We describe the clinical course of the first 3 pediatric cases infected with Rickettsia spp. 364D. Although the pathogen was identified in California ticks decades ago, only recently have human cases been documented. Clinical features are generally mild, characterized by eschar, fever, headache, malaise and lymphadenopathy. Antigenic similarity among rickettsiae leads to cross-reactive antibody responses; definitive diagnosis requires molecular methods.

5075 http://dx.doi.org/10.1289/ehp.6877
Unhealthy landscapes: Policy recommendations on land use change and infectious disease emergence
Anthropogenic land use changes drive a range of infectious disease outbreaks and emergence events and modify the transmission of endemic infections. These drivers include agricultural encroachment, deforestation, road construction, dam building, irrigation, wetland modification, mining, the concentration or expansion of urban environments, coastal zone degradation, and other activities. These changes in turn cause a cascade of factors that exacerbate infectious disease emergence, such as forest fragmentation, disease introduction, pollution, poverty, and human migration. The Working Group on Land Use Change and Disease Emergence grew out of a special colloquium that convened international experts in infectious diseases, ecology, and environmental health to assess the current state of knowledge and to develop recommendations for addressing these environmental health challenges. The group established a systems model approach and priority lists of infectious diseases affected by ecologic degradation. Policy-relevant levels of the model include specific health risk factors, landscape or habitat change, and institutional (economic and behavioral) levels. The group recommended creating Centers of Excellence in Ecology and Health Research and Training, based at regional universities and/or research institutes with close links to the surrounding communities. The centers’ objectives would be 3-fold: a ) to provide information to local communities about the links between environmental change and public health; b ) to facilitate fully interdisciplinary research from a variety of natural, social, and health sciences and train professionals who can conduct interdisciplinary research; and c ) to engage in science-based communication and assessment for policy making toward sustainable health and ecosystems.

5078 http://dx.doi.org/10.1289/ehp1838
Integrating health into local climate response: Lessons from the U.S. CDC climate-ready states and cities initiative
Summary:. Public health has potential to serve as a frame to convey the urgency of behavior change needed to adapt to a changing climate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Local governments form the backbone of climate-related public health preparedness. Yet local health agencies are often inadequately prepared and poorly integrated into climate change assessments and plans. We reviewed the climate health profiles of 16 states and two cities participating in the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)’s Climate-Ready States and Cities Initiative (CRSCI) that aims to build local capacity to assess and respond to the health impacts of climate change. Following recommendations from a recent expert panel strategic review, we present illustrations of emerging promising practice and future directions. We found that CRSCI has strengthened climate preparedness and response in local public health agencies by identifying critical climate-health impacts and vulnerable populations, and has helped integrate health more fully into broader climate planning. Promising practice was found in all three recommendation areas identified by the expert panel (leveraging partnerships, refining assessment methodologies and enhancing communications), particularly with regard to health impacts of extreme heat. Vast needs remain, however, suggesting the need to disseminate CRSCI experience to non-grantees. In conclusion, the CRSCI program approach and selected activities illustrate a way forward toward robust, targeted local preparedness and response that may serve as a useful example for public health departments in the United States and internationally, particularly at a time of uncertain commitment to climate change agreements at the national level. 

5081 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00415-020-10243-5
Bilateral vestibulopathy: beyond imbalance and oscillopsia
Objective. To optimize the current diagnostic and treatment procedures for patients with bilateral vestibulopathy (BV), this study aimed to determine the complete spectrum of symptoms associated with BV. Method. A prospective mixed-method study design was used. Qualitative data were collected by performing semi-structured interviews about symptoms, context, and behavior. The interviews were recorded and transcribed until no new information was obtained. Transcriptions were analyzed in consensus by two independent researchers. In comparison to the qualitative results, quantitative data were collected using the Dizziness Handicap Inventory (DHI), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) and a health-related quality of life questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L). Results. Eighteen interviews were transcribed. Reported symptoms were divided into fourteen physical symptoms, four cognitive symptoms, and six emotions. Symptoms increased in many situations, such as darkness (100%), uneven ground (61%), cycling (94%) or driving a car (56%). These symptoms associated with BV often resulted in behavioral changes: activities were performed more slowly, with greater attention, or were avoided. The DHI showed a mean score of severe handicap (54.67). The HADS questionnaire showed on average normal results (anxiety = 7.67, depression = 6.22). The EQ-5D-5L demonstrated a mean index value of 0.680, which is lower compared to the Dutch age-adjusted reference 0.839 (60–70 years). Conclusion. BV frequently leads to physical, cognitive, and emotional complaints, which often results in a diminished quality of life. Importantly, this wide range of symptoms is currently underrated in literature and should be taken into consideration during the development of candidacy criteria and/or outcome measures for therapeutic interventions such as the vestibular implant.

5082 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s13365-020-00912-6
Peripheral facial nerve palsy associated with COVID-19
COVID-19 pandemic revealed several neurological syndromes related to this infection. We describe the clinical, laboratory, and radiological features of eight patients with COVID-19 who developed peripheral facial palsy during infection. In three patients, facial palsy was the first symptom. Nerve damage resulted in mild dysfunction in five patients and moderate in three. SARS-Cov-2 was not detected in CSF by PCR in any of the samples. Seven out of eight patients were treated with steroids and all patients have complete or partial recovery of the symptoms. Peripheral facial palsy should be added to the spectrum of neurological manifestations associated with COVID-19.

5098 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s12879-016-1582-3
Dirofilaria repens microfilariae from a human node fine-needle aspirate: A case report
Background. Human dirofilariosis is still a little known infection even in endemic areas. Dirofilariosis is zoonotic infection usually abortive in humans; instead, we report a very rare case (the 4th in the world), the first in Italy, in which at least two infective larvae became mature adults that mated and produced active microfilariae even though they did not reach peripheral blood. Case presentation. A 30-year-old Italian woman presented with a transient oedematous swelling on the left abdominal wall with a creeping eruption followed by the occurrence of a subcutaneous nodular painless mass in the iliac region. One month later, a similar temporary swelling appeared on the contralateral inguinal region associated with intermittent joint discomfort in both knees. The patient had recently travelled abroad, therefore many possible diagnoses were to be ruled out. Routine laboratory investigations revealed eosinophilia. An ultrasound examination of the iliac swelling evidenced a well-defined cyst with a big filamentous formation in continuous movement. A fine-needle aspiration of the lesion was performed for parasitological, cytological and histological exams. The prompt microscopic examination of the aspired material showed the presence of numerous microfilariae that were initially morphologically attributed to Mansonella ozzardi. Subsequently, the revision of the Giemsa stained film and molecular analyses of the biological material, allowed to identify Dirofilaria repens as etiological agent of infection. Conclusions. We report of a case in whom microfilariae were detected in fine-needle aspirate of subcutaneous node, without evidence of microfilaraemia, and the infection failed to become fully patent. Therefore we confirm that complete development and fertilization of D. repens worms in human hosts may occur, at variance with what is commonly believed, that Dirofilaria worms cannot fully develop in humans.

5107 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1471-2334-6-77
Spatial analysis of hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome in China
Background. Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) is endemic in many provinces with high incidence in mainland China, although integrated intervention measures including rodent control, environment management and vaccination have been implemented for over ten years. In this study, we conducted a geographic information system (GIS)-based spatial analysis on distribution of HFRS cases for the whole country with an objective to inform priority areas for public health planning and resource allocation. Methods. Annualized average incidence at a county level was calculated using HFRS cases reported during 1994–1998 in mainland China. GIS-based spatial analyses were conducted to detect spatial autocorrelation and clusters of HFRS incidence at the county level throughout the country. Results. Spatial distribution of HFRS cases in mainland China from 1994 to 1998 was mapped at county level in the aspects of crude incidence, excess hazard and spatial smoothed incidence. The spatial distribution of HFRS cases was nonrandom and clustered with a Moran's I = 0.5044 ( p = 0.001). Spatial cluster analyses suggested that 26 and 39 areas were at increased risks of HFRS ( p < 0.01) with maximum spatial cluster sizes of ≤ 20% and ≤ 10% of the total population, respectively. Conclusion. The application of GIS, together with spatial statistical techniques, provide a means to quantify explicit HFRS risks and to further identify environmental factors responsible for the increasing disease risks. We demonstrate a new perspective of integrating such spatial analysis tools into the epidemiologic study and risk assessment of HFRS.

5178 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1471-2458-7-207
Analysis of the geographic distribution of HFRS in Liaoning Province between 2000 and 2005
Background. Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) is endemic in Liaoning Province, China, and this province was the most serious area affected by HFRS during 2004 to 2005. In this study, we conducted a spatial analysis of HFRS cases with the objective to determine the distribution of HFRS cases and to identify key areas for future public health planning and resource allocation in Liaoning Province. Methods. The annual average incidence at the county level was calculated using HFRS cases reported between 2000 and 2005 in Liaoning Province. GIS-based spatial analyses were conducted to detect spatial distribution and clustering of HFRS incidence at the county level, and the difference of relative humidity and forestation between the cluster areas and non-cluster areas was analyzed. Results. Spatial distribution of HFRS cases in Liaoning Province from 2000 to 2005 was mapped at the county level to show crude incidence, excess hazard, and spatial smoothed incidence. Spatial cluster analysis suggested 16 and 41 counties were at increased risk for HFRS (p < 0.01) with the maximum spatial cluster sizes at ≤ 50% and ≤ 30% of the total population, respectively, and the analysis showed relative humidity and forestation in the cluster areas were significantly higher than in other areas. Conclusion. Some clustering of HFRS cases in Liaoning Province may be etiologically linked. There was strong evidence some HFRS cases in Liaoning Province formed clusters, but the mechanism underlying it remains unknown. In this study we found the clustering was consistent with the relative humidity and amount of forestation, and showed data indicating there may be some significant relationships.

5179 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1471-2458-12-1116
Environmental correlates of Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever incidence in Bulgaria
Background. Crimean-Congo Haemorrhagic Fever (CCHF) is a zoonotic viral disease transmitted by ixodid tick bites, mainly of Hyalomma spp., or through contact with blood/tissues from infected people or animals. CCHF is endemic in the Balkan area, including Bulgaria, where it causes both sporadic cases and community outbreaks. Methods. We described trends of CCHF in Bulgaria between 1997 and 2009 and investigated the associations between CCHF incidence and a selection of environmental factors using a zero-inflated modelling approach. Results. A total of 159 CCHF cases (38 women and 121 men) were identified between 1997 and 2009. The incidence was 0.13 cases per 100,000 population/year with a fatality rate of 26%. An epidemic peak was detected close to the Turkish border in the summer of 2002. Most cases were reported between April and September. Increasing mean temperature, Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), savannah-type land coverage or habitat fragmentation increased significantly the incidence of CCHF in the CCHF-affected areas. Similar to that observed in Turkey, we found that areas with warmer temperatures in the autumn prior to the case-reporting year had an increased probability of reporting zero CCHF cases. Conclusions. We identified environmental correlates of CCHF incidence in Bulgaria that may support the prospective implementation of public health interventions.

5201 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijantimicag.2012.01.016
Outpatient parenteral antimicrobial therapy (OPAT) in a teaching hospital-based practice: A retrospective cohort study describing experience and evolution over 10 years
Use of outpatient parenteral antimicrobial therapy (OPAT) is increasing in settings with advanced healthcare systems internationally. This study describes a large OPAT service cohort developed in the west of Scotland and includes trends over a 10-year period of this service. Data were retrieved from a prospectively maintained electronic case database. Patient and logistic variables were collated for all OPAT episodes ( n = 2638, resulting in 39 035 days of patient care over 10 years). Skin and soft-tissue infections and bone and joint infections accounted for 77% of OPAT cases, but a wide range of other conditions have been treated in this cohort. Outcome variables were evaluated for all first OPAT attendances ( n = 2233), amongst which a successful outcome (cure or improvement) was found for 2063 (92.4%). Unplanned admission was observed in 9.1% of patients (6.3 events per 1000 OPAT patient days). Healthcare-associated infection rates were low: amongst first OPAT attendances, 14 intravenous line infections were observed (0.4 per 1000 OPAT patient days). Statistically significant trends over time included: a decrease in OPAT treatment time; increased referrals from non-local and secondary care sources; increased rate of co-morbidity of OPAT referrals; and increased self/carer administration of antimicrobials. Outcome proportions (success and adverse events) did not vary over time. This cohort study adds to the increasing observational data suggesting that OPAT is safe, effective and acceptable for treating a wide variety of infections. Observed trends over a 10-year period suggest that this model of infection management is adaptable and sustainable.

5231 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1476-072x-10-70
Spatially explicit multi-criteria decision analysis for managing vector-borne diseases
The complex epidemiology of vector-borne diseases creates significant challenges in the design and delivery of prevention and control strategies, especially in light of rapid social and environmental changes. Spatial models for predicting disease risk based on environmental factors such as climate and landscape have been developed for a number of important vector-borne diseases. The resulting risk maps have proven value for highlighting areas for targeting public health programs. However, these methods generally only offer technical information on the spatial distribution of disease risk itself, which may be incomplete for making decisions in a complex situation. In prioritizing surveillance and intervention strategies, decision-makers often also need to consider spatially explicit information on other important dimensions, such as the regional specificity of public acceptance, population vulnerability, resource availability, intervention effectiveness, and land use. There is a need for a unified strategy for supporting public health decision making that integrates available data for assessing spatially explicit disease risk, with other criteria, to implement effective prevention and control strategies. Multi-criteria decision analysis (MCDA) is a decision support tool that allows for the consideration of diverse quantitative and qualitative criteria using both data-driven and qualitative indicators for evaluating alternative strategies with transparency and stakeholder participation. Here we propose a MCDA-based approach to the development of geospatial models and spatially explicit decision support tools for the management of vector-borne diseases. We describe the conceptual framework that MCDA offers as well as technical considerations, approaches to implementation and expected outcomes. We conclude that MCDA is a powerful tool that offers tremendous potential for use in public health decision-making in general and vector-borne disease management in particular.

5234 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00436-003-0908-4
Evaluation of K9 Advantix™ vs. Frontline Plus® tropical treatments of repel brown dog ticks (Rhipicephalus sanguineus) on dogs
The ability of pesticides to repel or kill ticks before they attach to a host and feed is important for the prevention of tick born pathogens. A study design was developed to evaluate the transfer and attachment of ticks from the environment to dogs. Eighteen preconditioned laboratory dogs were allocated in to 3 treatment groups (6 dogs/group): Group 1- K9 Advantix (8.8 % imidacloprid + 44.0 % permethrin), Group 2 –Frontline Plus (9.8 % fipronil + 8.8 % S-methoprene), Group 3- untreated control. Treatments were applied per label directions on test day 0. Individual heavy –gauge plastic pet transport carriers (68 x 76x 102 cm) with nylon carpet floors were used for tick challenges. Dogs were placed in the carriers containing 50 adult R. sanguineus for a 2-hour period. The dogs were then removed, and the number of live and dead ticks on the dog, and ticks remaining in the carrier were counted. Tick challenges and subsequent tick counts were conducted on test days 3, 7, 14, 21, 28,and 35. Tick efficacy was determined by comparing the geo. mean number of live ticks on the treated dogs with the number of live ticks on the control dogs. The number of live ticks on the control dogs ranged from a geo. mean of 12.0 to 29.5 ticks per dog during the study. Percent efficacy for the K9 Advantix group ranged from 84.0 to 98.5 % between test days 3 and 35. Percent efficacy for the Frontline Plus group ranged from –28.1 to 56.8% during the corresponding period.

5237 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00436-014-3805-0
Do not forget the stool examination! - Cutaneous and gastrointestinal manifestations of Blastocystis sp. infection
Blastocystis sp. is one of the most common parasites in the human intestinal tract. This infection commonly is accompanied by diarrhoea and abdominal pain, but extraintestinal symptoms, such as skin lesions, may also accompany the disease. In this study, our aim was to assess the frequency, clinical symptoms and skin manifestations of confirmed positive Blastocystis sp. infections. Data of 80 patients with confirmed positive Blastocystis sp. infections were assessed retrospectively. The average age of the patients was 46.3 years of age (with a range between 13 and 85 years of age). The number of female patients was higher than the number of males (48 vs. 32; 60 vs. 40 %). Gastrointestinal and dermatological symptoms and the results of routine biochemical and haematological blood tests of enrolled patients were collected and analyzed. The skin manifestations were analyzed using the data available (including descriptions, photos and histologies). We discovered that 11.25 % of our enrolled patients exhibited skin manifestations associated to Blastocystis sp., mainly on the females. The occurrence of Blastocystis sp. was 6 % in symptomatic patients who required medical attendance in the time period between 2005 and 2013. Of the 80 patients, 73.75 % indicated that they had gastrointestinal symptoms: 40 patients complained of abdominal pain and 17 with blood in their stool, while other symptoms, such as meteorism (15 subjects), weigh loss (8 subjects), perianal pain or itching (6 subjects), passing stool with mucus (5 subjects), vomiting (2 subjects) and fever (2 subjects) were less frequent. The prevalence of abdominal pain in the cohort without skin lesions was higher compared to those patients with skin problems ( p = 0.007). The mean value of C-reactive protein showed elevated levels, but eosinophils were within a normal range. In addition, we did not find significant difference in eosinophilia between patients with vs. without skin manifestations. Thus, we suggest that eosinophilia is not an obligatory laboratory finding in protozoon infections, such as Blastocystis sp. In the light of our results, we suggest a stool parasite examination for patients with skin lesions of unknown origin.

5241 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1476-072x-2-9
Power evaluation of disease clustering tests
Background. Many different test statistics have been proposed to test for spatial clustering. Some of these statistics have been widely used in various applications. In this paper, we use an existing collection of 1,220,000 simulated benchmark data, generated under 51 different clustering models, to compare the statistical power of several disease clustering tests. These tests are Besag-Newell's R , Cuzick-Edwards' k -Nearest Neighbors ( k -NN), the spatial scan statistic, Tango's Maximized Excess Events Test (MEET), Swartz' entropy test, Whittemore's test, Moran's I and a modification of Moran's I . Results. Except for Moran's I and Whittemore's test, all other tests have good power for detecting some kind of clustering. The spatial scan statistic is good at detecting localized clusters. Tango's MEET is good at detecting global clustering. With appropriate choice of parameter, Besag-Newell's R and Cuzick-Edwards' k -NN also perform well. Conclusion. The power varies greatly for different test statistics and alternative clustering models. Consideration of the power is important before we decide which test statistic to use.

5242 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1476-072x-5-36
Avian GIS models signal human risk for West Nile virus in Mississippi
Background. West Nile virus (WNV) poses a significant health risk for residents of Mississippi. Physicians and state health officials are interested in new and efficient methods for monitoring disease spread and predicting future outbreaks. Geographic Information Systems (GIS) models have the potential to support these efforts. Environmental conditions favorable for mosquito habitat were modeled using GIS to derive WNV risk maps for Mississippi. Variables important to WNV dissemination were selected and classified as static and dynamic. The static variables included road density, stream density, slope, and vegetation. The dynamic variable represented seasonal water budget and was calculated using precipitation and evaporation estimates. Significance tests provided deterministic evidence of variable importance to the models. Results. Several models were developed to estimate WNV risk including a landscape-base model and seasonal climatic sub-models. P-values from t-tests guided variable importance ranking. Variables were ranked and weights assigned as follows: road density (0.4), stream density (0.3), slope (0.2) and vegetation (0.1). This landscape-base model was modified by climatic conditions to assess the importance of climate to WNV risk. Human case data at the zip code level were used to validate modeling results. All models were summarized by zip codes for interpretation and model validation. For all models, estimated risk was higher for zip codes with at least one human case than for zip codes where no human cases were recorded. Overall median measure of risk by zip code indicated that 67% of human cases occurred in the high-risk category. Conclusion. Modeling results indicated that dead bird occurrences are correlated with human WNV risk and can facilitate the assessment of environmental variables that contribute to that risk. Each variable's importance in GIS-based risk predictions was assigned deterministically. Our models indicated non-uniform distribution of risk across the state and showed elevated risk in urban and as well as rural areas. Model limitations include resolution of human data, zip code aggregation issues, and quality/availability of vegetation and stream density layers. Our approach verified that WNV risk can be modeled at the state level and can be modified for risk predictions of other vector-borne diseases in varied ecological regions.

5243 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1476-072x-5-33
Investigation of geo-spatial hotspots for the occurrence of tuberculosis in Almora district, India, using GIS and spatial scan statistic
Background. The World Health Organization has declared tuberculosis a global emergency in 1993. It has been estimated that one third of the world population is infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis , the causative agent of tuberculosis. The emergence of TB/HIV co-infection poses an additional challenge for the control of tuberculosis throughout the world. The World Health Organization is supporting many developing countries to eradicate tuberculosis. It is an agony that one fifth of the tuberculosis patients worldwide are in India. The eradication of tuberculosis is the greatest public health challenge for this developing country. The aim of the present population based study on Mycobacterium tuberculosis is to test a large set of tuberculosis cases for the presence of statistically significant geographical clusters. A spatial scan statistic is used to identify purely spatial and space-time clusters of tuberculosis. Results. Significant (p < 0.05 for primary clusters and p < 0.1 for secondary clusters) high rate spatial and space-time clusters were identified in three areas of the district. Conclusion. There is sufficient evidence about the existence of statistically significant tuberculosis clusters in Almora district of Uttaranchal, India. The spatial scan statistics methodology used in this study has a potential use in surveillance of tuberculosis for detecting the true clusters of the disease.

5245 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1476-072x-8-38
Spatial analysis of plague in California: niche modeling predictions of the current distribution and potential response to climate change
Background. Plague, caused by the bacterium Yersinia pestis , is a public and wildlife health concern in California and the western United States. This study explores the spatial characteristics of positive plague samples in California and tests Maxent, a machine-learning method that can be used to develop niche-based models from presence-only data, for mapping the potential distribution of plague foci. Maxent models were constructed using geocoded seroprevalence data from surveillance of California ground squirrels ( Spermophilus beecheyi ) as case points and Worldclim bioclimatic data as predictor variables, and compared and validated using area under the receiver operating curve (AUC) statistics. Additionally, model results were compared to locations of positive and negative coyote ( Canis latrans ) samples, in order to determine the correlation between Maxent model predictions and areas of plague risk as determined via wild carnivore surveillance. Results. Models of plague activity in California ground squirrels, based on recent climate conditions, accurately identified case locations (AUC of 0.913 to 0.948) and were significantly correlated with coyote samples. The final models were used to identify potential plague risk areas based on an ensemble of six future climate scenarios. These models suggest that by 2050, climate conditions may reduce plague risk in the southern parts of California and increase risk along the northern coast and Sierras. Conclusion. Because different modeling approaches can yield substantially different results, care should be taken when interpreting future model predictions. Nonetheless, niche modeling can be a useful tool for exploring and mapping the potential response of plague activity to climate change. The final models in this study were used to identify potential plague risk areas based on an ensemble of six future climate scenarios, which can help public managers decide where to allocate surveillance resources. In addition, Maxent model results were significantly correlated with coyote samples, indicating that carnivore surveillance programs will continue to be important for tracking the response of plague to future climate conditions.

5285 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10393-006-0063-3
The role of ecotones in emerging infectious diseases
Recognition of the significance of the boundary between ecological systems, often referred to as the ecotone, has a long history in the ecological sciences and in zoonotic disease research. More recent research in landscape ecology has produced an expanded view of ecotones and elaboration of their characteristics and functions in ecosystems. Parallel research on emerging infectious diseases (EIDs) and the causes of increased rates of pathogen transmission, spread, and adaptation suggests a correspondence between ecotonal processes and the ecological and evolutionary processes responsible for zoonotic and vector-borne emerging infections. A review of the literature suggests that ecotones play a role in a number of the most important EIDs. Yet these are the only diseases for which specific landscape ecological information exists in the literature or disease reports. However, the similar disease ecologies of these with about half of the approximately 130 zoonotic EIDs suggests ecotones, particularly their anthropogenic origination or modification, may be generally associated with ecotones and the global trend of increasing EIDs.

5286 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10393-006-0035-7
Ecology of infectious disease: Forging an alliance
The Ecology of Infectious Diseases (EID) program is a joint National Science Foundation–National Institutes of Health initiative to produce predictive understanding of disease dynamics, with a focus on diseases with an environmental component. The interdisciplinary research projects funded by this program take advantage of the wide range of theoretical and methodological advances developed over the past 30 years. The challenge for disease ecology is to unravel these systems, discover how complex they truly are, and to determine if they can be predicted and controlled using targeted environmental, public health, or medical interventions. Between 1999 and 2005, a total of 42 research awards were made under the EID program. EID projects have had affects on policy in two areas: adoption of novel interventions on a local scale and use of models by government agencies for the purpose of allocating public health resources. The past 6 years have been an exciting time for the field of disease ecology; we expect the coming years to be even more exciting and productive.

5288 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10393-006-0080-2
Anthropogenic environmental change, mosquito-borne diseases and human health in New Zealand
Anthropogenic environmental change is acknowledged as a primary factor in the emergence of diseases. New Zealand’s history since human occupation has been characterized by extensive anthropogenic disturbance and the establishment of numerous exotic species. As a result, highly modified habitats have been created, which, in conjunction with introduced organisms, provide suitable conditions for the establishment of exotic systems likely to lead to outbreaks of mosquito-borne disease. The interactions among some disturbance factors in the New Zealand environment are discussed, and the potential public health implications.

5291 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10393-021-01542-y
Managing Wildlife Disease Under Climate Change
 Infectious diseases of humans, wildlife, and domesticated species are increasing worldwide, driving the need to understand the mechanisms that shape outbreaks. Simultaneously, human activities are drastically reducing biodiversity. These concurrent patterns have prompted repeated suggestions that biodiversity and disease are linked. For example, the dilution effect hypothesis posits that these patterns are causally related; diverse host communities inhibit the spread of parasites via several mechanisms, such as by regulating populations of susceptible hosts or interfering with parasite transmission. However, the generality of the dilution effect hypothesis remains controversial, especially for zoonotic diseases of humans. Here we provide broad evidence that host diversity inhibits parasite abundance using a meta-analysis of 202 effect sizes on 61 parasite species. The magnitude of these effects was independent of host density, study design, and type and specialization of parasites, indicating that dilution was robust across all ecological contexts examined. However, the magnitude of dilution was more closely related to the frequency, rather than density, of focal host species. Importantly, observational studies overwhelmingly documented dilution effects, and there was also significant evidence for dilution effects of zoonotic parasites of humans. Thus, dilution effects occur commonly in nature, and they may modulate human disease risk. A second analysis identified similar effects of diversity in plant–herbivore systems. Thus, although there can be exceptions, our results indicate that biodiversity generally decreases parasitism and herbivory. Consequently, anthropogenic declines in biodiversity could increase human and wildlife diseases and decrease crop and forest production.

5309 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.09.047
Constructing target product profiles (TPPs) to help vaccines overcome post-approval obstacles
As history has demonstrated, post-approval obstacles can impede a vaccine's use and potentially lead to its withdrawal. Addressing these potential obstacles when changes in a vaccine's technology can still be easily made may improve a vaccine's chances of success. Augmented vaccine target product profiles (TPPs) can help vaccine scientists better understand and anticipate these obstacles and galvanize conversations among various vaccine stakeholders (e.g., scientists, marketers, business development managers, policy makers, public health officials, health care workers, third party payors, etc.) earlier in a vaccine's development.

5331 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10096-009-0794-5
Self-administered outpatient parenteral antimicrobial therapy: A report of three years experience in the Irish healthcare setting
Outpatient parenteral antibiotic therapy (OPAT) was first reported in 1972. OPAT programmes are not well established in Ireland, with no reported outcomes in the literature. An OPAT programme was established at St. James Hospital in 2006. Demographics, diagnoses and outcomes of the first 60 courses are reported. A retrospective analysis of prospectively recorded data was performed on patients treated from March 2006 to February 2009. The data was analysed using SPSS v.17. Sixty OPAT courses were administered to 56 patients, 57 percent of which were male. The median age was 50 years, the median inpatient stay was 19 days, the median duration of OPAT was 16 days and 1,289 inpatient bed days were saved. The additional cost per day of OPAT was €167.60. Vancomycin was the most prescribed antimicrobial, administered to 35%. Musculoskeletal infection was the indication for treatment in 50%. Confirmatory microbiological diagnosis was identified in 72%, most frequently due to Staphylococcus aureus (68%). Only minor adverse events were recorded. Clinical cure was achieved in 92.8%. A patient satisfaction survey showed high satisfaction. OPAT is a safe and effective way of providing parenteral antibiotic therapy in the Irish healthcare system. Better integration of funding and the appointment of Infectious Diseases specialists will facilitate its expansion.

5335 http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.1256800
C9orf72 repeat expansions cause neurodegeneration in Drosophila through arginine-rich proteins
Certain neurodegenerative diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), are associated with expanded dipeptides translated from RNA transcripts of disease-associated genes (see the Perspective by West and Gitler). Kwon et al. show that the peptides encoded by the expanded repeats in the C9orf72 gene interfere with the way cells make RNA and kill cells. These effects may account for how this genetic form of ALS causes disease. Working in Drosophila , Mizielinska et al. aimed to distinguish between the effects of repeat-containing RNAs and the dipeptide repeat peptides that they encode. The findings provide evidence that dipeptide repeat proteins can cause toxicity directly.

5336 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s12883-014-0232-x
An open-label pilot trial of minocycline in children as a treatment for Angelman syndrome
Background. Minocycline, a member of the tetracycline family, has a low risk of adverse effects and an ability to improve behavioral performance in humans with cognitive disruption. We performed a single-arm open-label trial in which 25 children diagnosed with Angelman syndrome (AS) were administered minocycline to assess the safety and tolerability of minocycline in this patient population and determine the drug’s effect on the cognitive and behavioral manifestations of the disorder. Methods. Participants, age 4-12 years old, were randomly selected from a pool of previously screened children for participation in this study. Each child received 3 milligrams of minocycline per kilogram of body weight per day for 8 weeks. Participants were assessed during 3 study visits: baseline, after 8-weeks of minocycline treatment and after an 8-week wash out period. The primary outcome measure was the Bayley Scales of Infant and Toddler Development 3rd Edition (BSID-III). Secondary outcome measures included the Clinical Global Impressions Scale (CGI), Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales 2nd Edition (VABS-II), Preschool Language Scale 4th Edition (PLS-IV) and EEG scores. Observations were considered statistically significant if p < 0.05 using ANOVA and partial eta squared (η 2 ) was calculated to show effect size. Multiple comparisons testing between time points were carried out using Dunnett’s post hoc testing. Results. Significant improvement in the mean raw scores of the BSID-III subdomains communication and fine motor ability as well as the subdomains auditory comprehension and total language ability of the PLS-IV when baseline scores were compared to scores after the washout period. Further, improvements were observed in the receptive communication subdomain of the VABS-II after treatment with minocycline. Finally, mean scores of the BSID-III self-direction subdomain and CGI scale score were significantly improved both after minocycline treatment and after the wash out period. Conclusion. The clinical and neuropsychological measures suggest minocycline was well tolerated and causes improvements in the adaptive behaviors of this sample of children with Angelman syndrome. While the optimal dosage and the effects of long-term use still need to be determined, these findings suggest further investigation into the effect minocycline has on patients with Angelman syndrome is warranted. Trial registration. NCT01531582 – clinicaltrials.gov

5361 http://dx.doi.org/10.1128/aac.00113-17
A Tick Antivirulence Protein Potentiates Antibiotics against Staphylococcus aureus
New strategies are needed to combat antibiotic resistance, especially against pathogens such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . A tick antifreeze glycoprotein, IAFGP, possesses potent antibiofilm properties against a variety of clinical pathogens, including S. aureus . Synergy between IAFGP, or a peptide (P1) representative of a repeat region of the protein, with different antibiotics was assessed in vitro . Antibiotics that synergized with either IAFPG or P1 were further evaluated in vivo using vertebrate and invertebrate infection models. IAFGP readily enhanced the efficacy of antibiotics against S. aureus . Synergy with daptomycin, an antibiotic used to treat methicillin-resistant S. aureus , was observed in vitro and in vivo using iafgp -transgenic mice and flies. Furthermore, synergy with ciprofloxacin or gentamicin, antibiotics not generally used to treat S. aureus , was also perceived. The combined effect of the antibiotic and IAFGP was associated with improved permeation of the antibiotic into the cell. Our results highlight that synergy of IAFGP with antibiotics traditionally used to treat this pathogen, and enhancement of the potency of antibiotics not commonly used against this microbe, can provide novel alternative therapeutic strategies to combat bacterial infections.

5377 http://dx.doi.org/10.1128/aac.00662-21
Effective Therapy Targeting Cytochrome bc 1 Prevents Babesia Erythrocytic Development and Protects from Lethal Infection
An effective strategy to control blood-borne diseases and prevent outbreak recrudescence involves targeting conserved metabolic processes that are essential for pathogen viability. One such target for Plasmodium and Babesia , the infectious agents of malaria and babesiosis, respectively, is the mitochondrial cytochrome bc 1 protein complex, which can be inhibited by endochin-like quinolones (ELQ) and atovaquone. We used the tick-transmitted and culturable blood-borne pathogen Babesia duncani to evaluate the structure-activity relationship, safety, efficacy, and mode of action of ELQs. We identified a potent and highly selective ELQ prodrug (ELQ-502), which, alone or in combination with atovaquone, eliminates B. microti and B. duncani infections in vitro and in mouse models of parasitemia and lethal infection. The strong efficacy at low dose, excellent safety, bioavailability, and long half-life of this experimental therapy make it an ideal clinical candidate for the treatment of human infections caused by Babesia and its closely related apicomplexan parasites.

5381 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00296-007-0514-3
sRANKL and OPG in serum and synovial fluid of patients with rheumatoid arthritis in comparison to non-destructive chronic arthritis
The aim of this study was to investigate sRANKL and OPG levels in serum and synovial fluid (SF) and to evaluate their relations in patients with RA in comparison to those with non-erosive arthritis (NEA). The study included 45 unselected RA patients with knee joint effusions and 27 patients with knee joint effusions because of NEA. Serum and SF samples were investigated isochronously. OPG and sRANKL were measured by ELISA assays. In RA, sRANKL levels were higher in serum than in SF ( P = 0.007). In contrast, the NEA revealed higher sRANKL in SF compared to the serum ( P = 0.001). Though in RA the average levels of sRANKL ser were 5.6 times and of sRANKL syn 1.5 times higher than in NEA, the differences were not significant. The free (unbound) OPG in SF was not significantly different in RA compared to NEA. Also in serum, the measured free OPG was only slightly higher in RA. There were no significant differences between RA and NEA concerning ESR and CRP. Significant correlations could be found between sRANKL syn and CRP ( r = 0.453; P = 0.005) as well as ESR ( r = 0.362; P = 0.033) in RA. Nearly a positive correlation was evident also between sRANKL syn and CRP in NEA ( r = 0.520; P = 0.08). RA and NEA differ in particular concerning their power and intensity to destruct the juxtaarticular bone. This is the most remarkable finding of this study, that in RA a high part of sRANKL seems to be OPG bound and cleared by the blood stream, but the sRANKL neutralizing capacity of produced OPG in opposite to NEA is not sufficient to prevent osteoclast activation and bone destruction in the RA joint.

5384 http://dx.doi.org/10.3109/09273948.2013.795228
Differential diagnosis of behçet uveitis
The diagnosis of Behçet disease is clinical and based on the presence of characteristic ocular and systemic inflammatory manifestations. Patients may present with anterior, posterior, or panuveitis in one or both eyes. The differential diagnosis includes a variety of infectious and noninfectious causes of acute nongranulomatous anterior uveitis, intermediate uveitis, occlusive retinal vasculitis, focal or multifocal retinitis, and necrotizing retinitis. A course characterized by sudden onset with improvement followed by recurrence of inflammatory signs is most typical for Behçet uveitis.

5385 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00296-014-2979-1
Systemic staging for urate crystal deposits with dual-energy CT and ultrasound in patients with suspected gout
Objective of the study is to compare the diagnostic accuracy for detecting monosodium urate crystal deposits between dual-energy CT (DECT) and ultrasound (US). Sixty consecutive patients (49 men, mean age 62 years) with clinically suspected gout were included in this case–control study. DECT and US of feet, knees, hands and elbows were performed in all patients. Polarisation microscopy of synovial fluid or a score incorporating serum uric acid level, first MTP joint involvement, gender, previous patient-reported arthritis attack, cardiovascular diseases, joint redness and onset within 1 day was used as standard of reference. Standard of reference classified 39 patients as gout positive. Sixteen patients had gout and a concomitant rheumatic disease. Sensitivities for diagnosis of gout disease were 84.6 % (33/39) for DECT and 100 % (39/39) for US. Specificities were 85.7 % (18/21) for DECT and 76.2 % (16/21) for US. Positive and negative predictive values were 91.7 % (33/36) and 75.0 % (18/24) for DECT, 88.6 % (39/44) and 100 % (16/16) for US, respectively. Urate crystals were detected most frequently in MTP1 joints (DECT 20/78, US 58/78), any other toe joints (DECT 25/78, US 62/78) and knees (DECT 41/78, US 31/78). The volumetry of DECT computed a mean urate crystal deposit load of 2.1 cm 3 (SD 9.6 cm 3 ). A mean effective dose of ≤0.5 mSv was estimated. DECT is more specific for the diagnosis of gout than US. However, it fails to detect small urate crystal deposits. It might be particularly useful for patients with ambivalent findings, concomitant rheumatic diseases and with non-conclusive joint aspiration.

5388 http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09273948.2016.1188968
The Pattern of Uveitis among Chinese, Malays, and Indians in Singapore
Purpose : To describe the pattern of uveitis among Chinese, Malays, and Indians at a tertiary referral institution in Singapore. Methods : Charts between January 1997 and December 2010 were retrospectively reviewed. Charts between January 2014 and December 2014 were prospectively reviewed. Results : A total of 1249 and 148 charts were retrospectively and prospectively reviewed, respectively. The top causes of anterior uveitis (AU) were HLA-B27, idiopathic, and CMV AU. The top known causes of intermediate uveitis were tuberculosis, primary intraocular lymphoma, and sarcoidosis. The top causes of posterior uveitis were CMV retinitis, toxoplasmosis, and dengue maculopathy. The top causes of panuveitis were VKH, idiopathic panuveitis, tuberculosis, and Behçet disease. HLA-B27 and CMV AU were more frequent among Chinese (21% vs 9% (non-Chinese); p <0.001; 10% vs 5% (non-Chinese); p <0.001, respectively). Tuberculous uveitis was more frequent among Malays and Indians (12% (non-Chinese) vs 5% (Chinese), p <0.001). Conclusions : Different uveitis patterns were encountered among patients of different races.

5389 http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09273948.2016.1196714
Demographic and Clinical Characteristics of Uveitis in Turkey: The First National Registry Report
Purpose : To describe the demographic and clinical profiles of uveitis patients seen at secondary and tertiary care centers in Turkey. Methods : A nationwide web-based registry of patients with uveitis was initiated in November 2008. We analyzed data from a single baseline registry-enrollment visit. Results : In 33 centers, 6967 eyes of 4863 consecutive patients were registered. The mean age at presentation was 36.6 ± 15.7 (1–92) years; 51.3% were male. Behçet disease was the leading diagnosis (24.9%), followed by ankylosing spondylitis and/or HLA-B27-associated anterior uveitis (9.7%), toxoplasmosis (7.1%), Fuchs uveitis (6.3%), and presumed herpetic anterior uveitis (6.0%). Visual acuity was 0.1 or worse in 22% of eyes. The most common ocular complications were posterior synechiae (16.2%) and cataract formation (16.2%). Conclusions : Behçet disease is still the most common non-infectious etiology in Turkish uveitis patients, while ocular toxoplasmosis and herpetic anterior uveitis are the most common infectious uveitic entities.

5392 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00296-019-04421-6
Profile of new referrals to a single pediatric rheumatology center in Turkey
To describe the demographic characteristics and clinical features of patients referred to a pediatric rheumatology outpatient clinic in Turkey and to compare the final diagnoses with the previous literature data. All new patients referred to pediatric rheumatology outpatient clinic of Kanuni Sultan Süleyman Research and Training Hospital between March 2018 and March 2019 were enrolled to the study. Demographic data, referral patterns, disease related features, physical examination findings and final diagnoses of new referrals were collected prospectively. A total of 2982 new referrals were evaluated in 1-year period. Among them 1561 (52%) had a diagnosis of a rheumatic disease. The frequencies of most common rheumatic diseases were; periodic fever syndromes (47.3%), juvenile idiopathic arthritis (18%) and vasculitis (14.4%), respectively. Non-rheumatic conditions were diagnosed in 1243 patients, among them orthopedic/mechanic problems (27.4%) were the most frequent ones followed by vitamin D deficiency (17.5%) and dermatological problems (9.8%). Patients with non-rheumatic conditions comprised a large part of the pediatric rheumatology outpatient clinic. National registries are required to establish the frequencies of pediatric rheumatic diseases in Turkey.

5393 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1471-2180-8-61
Genome-wide screen for temperature-regulated genes of the obligate intracellular bacterium, Rickettsia typhi
Background. The ability of rickettsiae to survive in multiple eukaryotic host environments provides a good model for studying pathogen-host molecular interactions. Rickettsia typhi , the etiologic agent of murine typhus, is a strictly intracellular gram negative α-proteobacterium, which is transmitted to humans by its arthropod vector, the oriental rat flea, Xenopsylla cheopis . Thus, R. typhi must cycle between mammalian and flea hosts, two drastically different environments. We hypothesize that temperature plays a role in regulating host-specific gene expression, allowing R. typhi to survive in mammalian and arthropod hosts. In this study, we used Affymetrix microarrays to screen for temperature-induced genes upon a temperature shift from 37°C to 25°C, mimicking the two different host temperatures in vitro . Results. Temperature-responsive genes belonged to multiple functional categories including among others, transcription, translation, posttranslational modification/protein turnover/chaperones and intracellular trafficking and secretion. A large number of differentially expressed genes are still poorly characterized, and either have no known function or are not in the COG database. The microarray results were validated with quantitative real time RT-PCR. Conclusion. This microarray screen identified various genes that were differentially expressed upon a shift in temperature from 37°C to 25°C. Further characterization of the identified genes may provide new insights into the ability of R. typhi to successfully transition between its mammalian and arthropod hosts.

5479 http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.biochem.6b01046
Exploration of the Innate Immune System of Styela clava: Zn2+ Binding Enhances the Antimicrobial Activity of the Tunicate Peptide Clavanin A
Tunicates have been used as primitive models for understanding cell-mediated and humoral immunity. Clavanin A (ClavA) is one member of a family of antimicrobial peptides produced by the solitary tunicate Styela clava . In this work, we demonstrate that ClavA utilizes Zn 2+ ions to potentiate its antimicrobial activity not only by reducing the concentration at which the peptide inhibits the growth of bacteria but also by increasing the rate of killing. Membrane depolarization, β-galactosidase leakage, and potassium leakage assays indicate that ClavA is membrane active, forms small pores, but induces cell death by targeting an intracellular component. ClavA and ClavA-Zn 2+ added to Escherichia coli and imaged by confocal microscopy translocate across the cell membrane. E. coli mutants lacking the functional Zn 2+ import system are less susceptible to ClavA, suggesting that the synergistic activity between ClavA and Zn 2+ has a cytoplasmic target, which is further supported by its nucleolytic activity. Overall, these studies identify a remarkable new mechanism by which zinc contributes to the immune response in the tunicate S. clava .

5503 http://dx.doi.org/10.1377/hlthaff.2011.0071
Climate change and health risks: Assessing and responding to them through 'adaptive management'
Climate change and associated changing weather patterns, including severe weather events, are expected to increase the prevalence of a wide range of health risks. Yet there is uncertainty about the timing, location, and severity of these changes. Adaptive management, a structured process of decision making in the face of imperfect information, is an approach that can help the public health field effectively anticipate, plan for, and respond to the health risks of climate change. In this article I describe adaptive management and how it could increase the effectiveness of local and national strategies, policies, and programs to manage climate-sensitive health outcomes.

5509 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/bf02931051
Tick saliva in anti-tick immunity and pathogen transmission
When feeding on vertebrate host ticks (ectoparasitic arthropods and potential vectors of bacterial, rickettsial, protozoal, and viral diseases) induce both innate and specific acquired host-immune reactions as part of anti-tick defenses. In a resistant host immune defense can lead to reduced tick viability, sometimes resulting in tick death. Tick responds to the host immune attack by secreting saliva containing pharmacologically active molecules and modulating host immune response. Tick saliva-effected immuno-modulation at the attachment site facilitates both tick feeding and enhances the success of transmission of pathogens from tick into the host. On the other hand, host immunization with antigens from tick saliva can induce anti-tick resistance and is seen to be able to induce immunity against pathogens transmitted by ticks. Many pharmacological properties of saliva described in ticks are shared widely among other blood-feeding arthropods.

5510 http://dx.doi.org/10.7556/jaoa.2005.105.2.71
Evaluating the patient with peripheral nervous system complaints
Patients commonly seek care from their family physicians for symptoms that are suggestive of peripheral nervous system (PNS) dysfunction. At some point in active practice, virtually all family physicians will be required to conduct at least an initial evaluation of a patient with PNS. The authors outline and describe common themes found in the symptoms and diagnoses of PNS dysfunctions. These themes may be useful to physicians when performing initial evaluations of patients with PNS dysfunctions. The authors also discuss diagnostic methods and effective therapeutic interventions for this population. Abstract At some point in active practice, virtually all family physicians will be required to conduct at least an initial evaluation of a patient with peripheral nervous system (PNS) complaints. The authors outline and describe common themes found in the symptoms and diagnoses of PNS dysfunctions. These themes may be useful to physicians when performing initial evaluations of patients with PNS dysfunctions. The authors also discuss diagnostic methods and effective therapeutic interventions for this patient population. The human nervous system is an incredibly complex network of pathways that allows us to interact successfully with our environment. The nervous system can be divided into two parts: the central nervous system (CNS), which includes the brain, brainstem, and spinal cord, and the peripheral nervous system (PNS) that consists of the individual cranial, motor, and sensory nerves. Although the autonomic nervous system (ie, the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system) is often considered part of the PNS, this review will focus on disorders of the motor and sensory nerves within the PNS. This review will only briefly address cranial neuropathies and autonomic nervous system dysfunction. 

5511 http://dx.doi.org/10.2807/ese.15.30.19627-en
Meteorological and climate change themes at the 2010 International Conference on Emerging Infectious Diseases
This report outlines selected highlights of presentations that took place at the 2010 International Conference on Emerging Infectious Diseases (ICEID) [1], held between 11 and 14 July 2010 at the Hyatt Regency Atlanta in Atlanta, Georgia, United States (US). The conference was organised by five national and international bodies and was attended by over 1,600 participants from a wide range of professional backgrounds. Abstracts for the posters and slide sessions have been published [2].

5512 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1752-1947-4-42
Mopane worm allergy in a 36-year-old woman: a case report
Introduction. The increasing incidence of new diseases as well as changing features of known diseases has partly been attributed to the impact of environmental changes. As a result, there have been calls from health experts for proper surveillance and monitoring of these changes. This is a report of mopane worm allergy in a 36 year old female from the Tswana tribe in Botswana. Mopane worm, the caterpillar stage of Gonimbrasia belina moths, is a seasonal delicacy to people in many communities in southern Africa. As a result, by adulthood, many residents of these communities have had substantial exposure to the worm. Gonimbrasia belina moths belong to the Lepidoptera order of insects. Though some members of this order are known to induce contact allergy, there is no reported incidence of ingestion allergy from mopane worm. Therefore, it is important to track this case for its epidemiological significance and to alert both clinicians and the vulnerable public on the incidence of mopane worm allergy in this region. Case presentation. This is a case of a 36 year old woman from the Tswana ethnic group in Botswana, who was diagnosed with food allergy. She presented with itchy skin rash, facial swelling, and mild hypotension after eating mopane worm. She had no previous history of allergic reaction following contact or ingestion of mopane worm and had no atopic illness in the past. She was treated and her symptoms resolved after 4 days. Conclusion. The proper management of allergy involves patients' avoidance and clinicians' predictability. Though hypothetical, this report is expected to sensitize clinicians to anticipate and properly manage subsequent occurrence, as well as educate the public in these communities. In addition, tracking new disease patterns, with relationship to environmental changes, will compliment existing evidence in validating the importance of proper environmental surveillance and management.

5546 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cimid.2011.09.004
Experimental infection by capillary tube feeding of Rhipicephalus sanguineus with Bartonella vinsonii subspecies berkhoffii
It has been speculated that ticks may serve as vectors of Bartonella species. Circumstantial, clinical, epidemiological and serological evidence suggest that B. vinsonii subspecies berkhoffii ( B. v. berkhoffii ) might be transmitted by Rhipicephalus sanguineus . The purpose of the present study was to determine whether adult R. sanguineus ticks can be infected with a B. v . berkhoffii genotype II isolate via capillary tube feeding and whether the infection can then be transmitted from adult females to their eggs via trans-ovarial transmission. Furthermore, tick fecal material was also collected and screened as a possible source of infectious inoculum for canine infections. B. v . berkhoffii DNA was detected in 50% (7 of 14) of females that did not oviposit and in 14.3% (2 of 14) of female ticks that laid eggs, but not detected in egg clutches (100 eggs/female). DNA was also detected in tick feces collected on days 2 through 6 post-capillary tube feeding, however, dogs ( n = 3) did not become bacteremic or seroconvert when inoculated with tick fecal material. Therefore, trans-ovarial transmission of B. v. berkhoffii by R. sanguineus is unlikely, but further studies are needed to determine if tick fecal material can serve as a source of infection to canines.

5559 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.vetmic.2013.11.009
Experimental infection of dogs with various Bartonella species or subspecies isolated from their natural reservoir
Dogs can be infected by a wide variety of Bartonella species. However, limited data is available on experimental infection of dogs with Bartonella strains isolated from domestic animals or wildlife. We report the inoculation of six dogs with Bartonella henselae (feline strain 94022, 16S rRNA type II) in three sets of two dogs, each receiving a different inoculum dose), four dogs inoculated with B. vinsonii subsp. berkhoffii type I (ATCC strain, one mongrel dog) or type II (coyote strain, two beagles and one mongrel) and B. rochalimae (coyote strain, two beagles). None of the dogs inoculated with B. henselae became bacteremic, as detected by classical blood culture. However, several dogs developed severe necrotic lesions at the inoculation site and all six dogs seroconverted within one to two weeks. All dogs inoculated with the B. v. berkhoffii and B. rochalimae strains became bacteremic at levels comparable to previous experimental infections with either a dog isolate or a human isolate. Our data support that dogs are likely accidental hosts for B. henselae , just like humans, and are efficient reservoirs for both B. v. berkhoffii and B. rochalimae .

5604 http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/08916930701776605
The inflammatory Th 17 subset in immunity against self and non-self antigens
T helper cells (Th cells) are traditionally thought to differentiate into Th1 and Th2 subsets based on their cytokine profiles. Recently, a subset of interleukin (IL)-17-producing cells (Th17 cells) which develop and function in a distinct way from Th1 or Th2 cells has been identified. Th17 cells have been shown to play a crucial role in the induction of autoimmune tissue injuries, inflammation and infection. Studies on Th17 subset and its relevant issues offered potential therapeutic targets for patients with autoimmune diseases, cancer, infection and transplant, which may have significant impacts in the prevention and/or treatment of immunity-related diseases in clinics.

5612 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.diii.2012.04.020
Brain infections
Brain infections are relatively rare, but they are potentially serious and have a poor prognosis. The cornerstone of the diagnosis is cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis. Imaging is not systematic, but the indications of imaging are broad, particularly when faced with suspected focal damage, depending on the characteristics of the patient (child, immunosuppressed patient, geographic origin, etc.). It is based on MRI, which allows for aetiological diagnosis and an extension evaluation. In addition, in a certain number of cases, the type of infection is not known and it is up to the MRI via use of an exhaustive technique to diagnose an infectious origin when faced with a mass syndrome. This technical mastery, associated with knowledge of major brain infections, their method of contamination and their particular appearance on the MRI, should make it possible for the radiologist to fulfill his or her diagnostic role.

5618 http://dx.doi.org/10.3233/jad-160451
Bacterial Amyloid and DNA are Important Constituents of Senile Plaques: Further Evidence of the Spirochetal and Biofilm Nature of Senile Plaques
 It has long been known that spirochetes form clumps or micro colonies in vitro and in vivo. Cortical spirochetal colonies in syphilitic dementia were considered as reproductive centers for spirochetes. Historic and recent data demonstrate that senile plaques in Alzheimer’s disease (AD) are made up by spirochetes. Spirochetes, are able to form biofilm in vitro . Senile plaques are also reported to contain elements of biofilm constituents. We expected that AβPP and Aβ (the main components of senile plaques) also occur in pure spirochetal biofilms, and bacterial DNA (an important component of biofilm) is also present in senile plaques. Histochemical, immunohistochemical, and in situ hybridization techniques and the TUNEL assay were used to answer these questions. The results obtained demonstrate that Aβ and DNA, including spirochete-specific DNA, are key components of both pure spirochetal biofilms and senile plaques in AD and confirm the biofilm nature of senile plaques. These results validate validate previous observations that AβPP and/or an AβPP-like amyloidogenic protein are an integral part of spirochetes, and indicate that bacterial and host derived Aβ are both constituents of senile plaques. DNA fragmentation in senile plaques further confirms their bacterial nature and provides biochemical evidence for spirochetal cell death. Spirochetes evade host defenses, locate intracellularly, form more resistant atypical forms and notably biofilms, which contribute to sustain chronic infection and inflammation and explain the slowly progressive course of dementia in AD. To consider co-infecting microorganisms is equally important, as multi-species biofilms result in a higher resistance to treatments and a more severe dementia.

5626 http://dx.doi.org/10.1155/2020/8796519
Small Fiber Neuropathy: Clinicopathological Correlations
 Small fiber neuropathy develops due to the selective damage of the thin fibers of peripheral nerves. Many common diseases can cause this condition, including diabetes, infections, autoimmune and endocrine disorders, but it can occur due to genetic alterations, as well. Eighty-five skin biopsy-proven small-fiber neuropathy cases were analyzed. Forty-one (48%) cases were idiopathic; among secondary types, hypothyreosis (9.4%), diabetes mellitus (7%), cryoglobulinemia (7%), monoclonal gammopathy with unproved significance (4.7%), Sjögren’s disease (3%), and paraneoplastic neuropathy (3%) were the most common causes. Two-thirds (68%) of the patients were female, and the secondary type started 8 years later than the idiopathic one. In a vast majority of the cases (85%), the distribution followed a length-dependent pattern. Intraepidermal fiber density was comparable in idiopathic and secondary forms. Of note, we found significantly more severe pathology in men and in diabetes. Weak correlation was found between patient-reported measures and pathology, as well as with neuropathic pain-related scores. Our study confirmed the significance of small fiber damage-caused neuropathic symptoms in many clinical conditions, the gender differences in clinical settings, and pathological alterations, as well as the presence of severe small fiber pathology in diabetes mellitus, one of the most common causes of peripheral neuropathy. 

5627 http://dx.doi.org/10.1055/s-0028-1124023
Multiple cranial neuropathies
Patients presenting with multiple cranial neuropathies are not uncommon in neurologic clinical practice. The evaluation of these patients can often be overwhelming due to the vast and complicated etiologies as well as the potential for devastating neurologic outcomes. Dysfunction of the cranial nerves can occur anywhere in their course from intrinsic brainstem dysfunction to their peripheral courses. The focus of this review will be on the extramedullary causes of multiple cranial neuropathies as discussion of the brainstem syndromes is more relevant when considering intrinsic disorders of the brainstem. The goals are to provide the reader with an overview of those extramedullary conditions that have a predilection for causing multiple cranial nerve palsies. In turn, this will serve to provide a practical and systematic approach to allow for a more targeted diagnostic evaluation of this, often cumbersome, presentation. 

5628 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1741-7015-9-100
Vocation and avocation: leisure activities correlate with professional engagement, but not burnout, in a cross-sectional survey of UK doctors
Background. Sir William Osler suggested in 1899 that avocations (leisure activities) in doctors are related to an increased sense of vocation (professional engagement) and a decreased level of burnout. This study evaluated those claims in a large group of doctors practicing in the UK while taking into account a wide range of background variables. Methods. A follow-up questionnaire was sent to 4,457 UK-qualified doctors who had been included in four previous studies of medical school selection and training, beginning in 1980, 1985, 1990 and 1989/1991. A total of 2,845 (63.8%) doctors returned the questionnaire. Questions particularly asked about work engagement, satisfaction with medicine as a career, and personal achievement (Vocation/engagement), stress, emotional exhaustion, and depersonalization (BurnedOut), and 29 different leisure activities (Avocation/Leisure), as well as questions on personality, empathy, work experience, and demography. Results. Doctors reporting more Avocation/Leisure activities tended to be women, to have older children, to be less surface-rational, more extravert, more open to experience, less agreeable, and to fantasize more. Doctors who were more BurnedOut tended to be men, to be more sleep-deprived, to report a greater workload and less choice and independence in their work, to have higher neuroticism, lower extraversion and lower agreeableness scores, and to have lower self-esteem. In contrast, doctors with a greater sense of Vocation/engagement, tended to see more patients, to have greater choice and independence at work, to have a deep approach to work, to have a more supportive-receptive work environment, to be more extravert and more conscientious, and to report greater self-esteem. Avocation/Leisure activities correlated significantly with Vocation/engagement, even after taking into account 25 background variables describing demography, work, and personality, whereas BurnedOut showed no significant correlation with Avocation/Leisure activities. Popular Culture and High Culture did not differ in their influence on Vocation/engagement, although there was a suggestion that Depersonalization was correlated with more interest in Popular Culture and less interest in High Culture. Conclusion. In this cross-sectional study there is evidence, even after taking into account a wide range of individual difference measures, that doctors with greater Avocation/Leisure activities also have a greater sense of Vocation/Engagement. In contrast, being BurnedOut did not relate to Avocation/Leisure activities (but did relate to many other measures). Osler was probably correct in recommending to doctors that, 'While medicine is to be your vocation, or calling, see to it that you also have an avocation'.

5633 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s13280-021-01599-7
Increasing risks for emerging infectious diseases within a rapidly changing High Asia
The cold and arid mountains and plateaus of High Asia, inhabited by a relatively sparse human population, a high density of livestock, and wildlife such as the iconic snow leopard Panthera uncia , are usually considered low risk for disease outbreaks. However, based on current knowledge about drivers of disease emergence, we show that High Asia is rapidly developing conditions that favor increased emergence of infectious diseases and zoonoses. This is because of the existing prevalence of potentially serious pathogens in the system; intensifying environmental degradation; rapid changes in local ecological, socio-ecological, and socio-economic factors; and global risk intensifiers such as climate change and globalization. To better understand and manage the risks posed by diseases to humans, livestock, and wildlife, there is an urgent need for establishing a disease surveillance system and improving human and animal health care. Public health must be integrated with conservation programs, more ecologically sustainable development efforts and long-term disease surveillance.

5699 http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/08897077.2011.639696
Reinventing the Reel: An Innovative Approach to Resident Skill-Building in Motivational Interviewing for Brief Intervention
To enhance the skills of primary care residents in addressing substance misuse, residency screening, brief intervention, and referral to treatment (SBIRT) programs increasingly offer motivational interviewing (MI) training, but seldom include feedback and coaching. This innovative 2-round “Virginia Reel” approach, supplementing 3 hours of basic MI instruction, was designed to teach and coach residents to use MI while providing ongoing medical care. SBIRT/MI-competent facilitators served as both trainers and actors at 8 carefully sequenced Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE) stations, providing instruction, role-play practice, and feedback on 17 microskills in 2 successive clinical “visits”/rounds addressing alcohol misuse and diabetes management. Evaluation included OSCE checklists, overall competency assessments, and responses to open-ended questions. Three residents showed improvement between rounds. Resident evaluations were strongly positive, identifying practice of MI skills and receipt of coaching and feedback from MI experts as particularly valuable. Further study is needed to confirm effectiveness of the approach and explore the impact of fewer OSCE stations of longer duration.

5758 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2016.12.019
Automated roof window control system to address overheating on renovated houses: Summertime assessment and intercomparison
Major and deep energy renovations on residential buildings are expected in Europe over the next several years. The current developments towards nearly-zero energy houses in building efficiency have increased the overheating occurrences indoors. For house users summer thermal discomfort is an unknown challenge that they have not faced in the past. The objectives of this study is to highlight the problem of overheating in energy renovated dwellings in temperate climates and to investigate the ability of automated roof window control systems to address the risk during the peak summer period. The assessment of the indoor environment was conducted in a typical two-storey house, close to Copenhagen. Both dynamic and static criteria were used to carry out risk evaluation. The assessment of the monitored data of the house verifies the fact that active and passive ventilation and shading systems, if manually controlled, cannot guarantee high quality indoor environment. The use of automated roof window control system may significantly decreases the overheating risk without any significant compromise of the indoor air quality. The developed system is analyzed in detail. Suggestions for future work are also proposed.

5759 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cobme.2017.10.001
Advancing the design and delivery of CRISPR antimicrobials
CRISPR-Cas systems are prokaryotic immune systems whose RNA-guided nucleases have been co-opted for applications ranging from genome editing and gene regulation to in vitro diagnostics and DNA imaging. Here, we review the current efforts toward repurposing CRISPR nucleases as programmable antimicrobials. Antimicrobial activity is achieved by targeted cleavage of multidrug-resistance plasmids or the bacterial chromosome, resulting in antibiotic sensitivity or cell death. As part of the review, we discuss the different types of nucleases available for CRISPR antimicrobials, the use of bacteriophages as delivery vehicles, and opportunities to enhance antimicrobial activity, delivery, and specificity. Through further advances, these programmable DNA-targeting antimicrobials may help quell the spread of antimicrobial resistance and provide a tool for the manipulation of complex microbial communities.

5760 http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acschembio.7b00237
Membrane Oxidation in Cell Delivery and Cell Killing Applications
Cell delivery or cell killing processes often involve the crossing or disruption of cellular membranes. We review how, by modifying the composition and properties of membranes, membrane oxidation can be exploited to enhance the delivery of macromolecular cargoes into live human cells. We also describe how membrane oxidation can be utilized to achieve efficient killing of bacteria by antimicrobial peptides. Finally, we present recent evidence highlighting how membrane oxidation is intimately engaged in natural biological processes such as antigen delivery in dendritic cells and in the killing of bacteria by antimicrobial peptides. Overall, the insights that have been recently gained in this area should facilitate the development of more effective delivery technologies and antimicrobial therapeutic approaches.

5780 http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acsinfecdis.8b00171
Phagosomal Copper-Promoted Oxidative Attack on Intracellular Mycobacterium tuberculosis
Copper (Cu) ions are critical in controlling bacterial infections, and successful pathogens like Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) possess multiple Cu resistance mechanisms. We report, as proof of concept, that a novel Cu hypersensitivity phenotype can be generated in mycobacteria, including Mtb, through a peptide, DAB-10, that is able to form reactive oxygen species (ROS) following Cu-binding. DAB-10 induces intramycobacterial oxidative stress in a Cu-dependent manner in vitro and during infection. DAB-10 penetrates murine macrophages and encounters intracellular mycobacteria. Significant intracellular Cu-dependent protection was observed when Mtb-infected macrophages were treated with DAB-10 alongside a cell-permeable Cu chelator. Treatment with the Cu chelator reversed the intramycobacterial oxidative shift induced by DAB-10. We conclude that DAB-10 utilizes the pool of phagosomal Cu ions in the host–Mtb interface to augment the mycobactericidal activity of macrophages while simultaneously exploiting the susceptibility of Mtb to ROS. DAB-10 serves as a model with which to develop next-generation, multifunctional antimicrobials.

5783 http://dx.doi.org/10.24966/dmd-201x/100030
The Side Effects Of Metformin - A Review
Type 2 Diabetes mellitus (T2DM) needs to be managed with medications along with a healthy lifestyle to stabilize levels of blood glucose. Metformin is an oral biguanide and a first choice anti-hyperglycaemic medication for T2DM. It reduces levels of blood glucose by inhibition of glucose production in the liver. Metformin helps the body to restore its ability to respond to insulin and is generally a safe and effective treatment. Other than glycaemic control, metformin also improves insulin resistance, dysfunction of the endothelium, oxidative stress, and haemostasis and lipid profiles. Metformin can help to avoid complications as a result of high blood glucose, such as diabetic nephropathy, neuropathy and retinopathy. Metformin can adversely affect renal functions of T2DM patients and chronic kidney disease can develop. The serious side effect of lactic acidosis is rare but can develop because metformin can accumulate. This review discusses the possible side effects of metformin, however patients taking metformin may or may not experience any or all of them. Metformin should be used carefully in the elderly and in patients who have trauma, fever, surgery, heart failure, impaired kidney or liver functions. Treatment with metformin should be stopped before any type of surgery.

5816 http://dx.doi.org/10.1054/nedt.2001.0720
The impact of globalization and environmental change on health: Challenges for nurse education
The environment is an established domain of nursing knowledge, but some authors argue that the traditional perspective is too narrowly focused on the immediate environment to appreciate the relevance of the global environment. This article explores how human activities are bringing about global changes through their impact on biogeochemical cycles, land use and mobility of organisms, altering biodiversity and climate, and ultimately compromising the ecosystems services that sustain our planet. The consequences of global change for population health are examined, including the emergence of drug-resistant diseases, and the implications of climate warming and pollution for health. Addressing these issues presents a considerable challenge for nursing at all levels, in promoting sustainable policies, integrating environmental considerations into clinical practice, and in the nursing role as health educators. The greatest challenge is to education, to raise awareness of the relevance and importance of the global environment to health, and to empower nurses with sufficient understanding of the issues to apply them to practice, participate in debate and contribute to policy-making that aims to reduce the burden of global changes. The extent to which the profession is prepared to diversify in response to these challenges is discussed.

5818 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.it.2003.12.004
The Guillain-Barré syndrome: A true case of molecular mimicry
Molecular mimicry between microbial antigens and host tissue forms an attractive hypothetical mechanism for the triggering of autoimmune disease by preceding infections. Recent crucial reviews state that molecular mimicry, as the causative mechanism, remains unproven for any human autoimmune disease. However, the peripheral neuropathy Guillain–Barré syndrome (GBS) is largely overseen in this debate. Based on recent evidence, we argue that GBS should be considered as an excellent paradigm and an attractive model for elucidation of both host and microbial aspects of molecular mimicry.

5821 http://dx.doi.org/10.1128/cdli.12.10.1231-1234.2005
Evaluation of LIAISON Treponema Screen, a novel recombinant antigen-based chemiluminescence immunoassay for laboratory diagnosis of syphilis
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic performance of LIAISON Treponema Screen (DiaSorin, Saluggia, Italy), a new automated chemiluminescence immunoassay (CLIA), in comparison with that of rapid plasma reagin (RPR) and the following currently used treponemal tests: hemagglutination test (TPHA), immunoenzymatic assay (EIA), and Western blot (WB). First, a retrospective study was performed with a panel of 2,494 blood donor sera, a panel of 131 clinical and serologically characterized syphilitic sera, and 96 samples obtained from subjects with potentially interfering diseases or conditions. A prospective study was also performed by testing 1,800 unselected samples submitted to the Microbiology Laboratory of the St. Orsola Hospital in Bologna, Italy, for routine screening for syphilis. As expected, RPR was the least specific method, especially when potentially cross-reacting sera were tested. On the contrary, all of the treponemal tests proved to be very specific (99.9%) and they performed with the following sensitivities: 100% (WB), 99.2% (CLIA), 95.4% (EIA), and 94.7% (TPHA).

5823 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10143-005-0392-7
Hemifacial spasm caused by pontine glioma: Case report and review of the literature
Hemifacial spasm (HFS) is an involuntary paroxysmal contractions of the facial musculature, caused generally by vascular compression of the seventh cranial nerve at its root exit zone from the brain stem. The case of an adult man harbouring brain stem glioma (BSG) whose only neurological signs were left HFS and mild facial weakness is reported. Radiological and neurophysiological findings are described. No responsible vessel could be identified during surgery, but the causative lesion was found to be an astrocytic tumour encasing the facial nerve at its root exit zone from the brain stem. The rarity of such a condition prompted us to review the literature. Nine cases, including our patient presenting with HFS caused by BSG, are reviewed.

5825 http://dx.doi.org/10.1017/s1355617706060838
Detection of inadequate effort on the California Verbal Learning Test-Second edition: Forced choice recognition and critical item analysis
The Forced Choice Recognition (FCR) and the Critical Item Analysis (CIA) indices of the California Verbal Learning Test-II (CVLT-II) have been identified by the CVLT-II test developers as potentially useful, brief screening indicators of effort in neuropsychological assessment. This retrospective study analyzes performance on these measures in three groups: (1) clinically referred individuals; (2) forensically referred individuals not suspected of inadequate effort; and (3) forensically referred individuals whose performance on freestanding tests of effort suggested inadequate effort. Performances on FCR were analyzed for their relation to actual memory impairment and with regard to concrete and abstract distractor endorsement. FCR and CIA performances were analyzed for agreement with formal tests of inadequate effort and their test characteristics. Incremental validity was assessed by hierarchical logistic regression with previously identified indices for detection of inadequate effort on the CVLT. Results indicate that (1) FCR and CIA performances are not related to decreased memory performance; (2) FCR and CIA indices exhibit higher specificity and lower sensitivity, with higher positive predictive value than negative predictive value; and (3) FCR and CIA indices exhibit modest incremental validity with previously identified indices. Implications for use of FCR and CIA indices in inadequate effort detection are discussed ( JINS , 2006, 12 , 688–696.)

5826 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/s1550-8579(07)80061-1
Gender differences in skin: A review of the literature
Background: There has been increasing interest in studying gender differences in skin to learn more about disease pathogenesis and to discover more effective treatments. Recent advances have been made in our understanding of these differences in skin histology, physiology, and immunology, and they have implications for diseases such as acne, eczema, alopecia, skin cancer, wound healing, and rheumatologic diseases with skin manifestations. Objective: This article reviews advances in our understanding of gender differences in skin. Methods: Using the PubMed database, broad searches for topics, with search terms such as gender differences in skin and sex differences in skin , as well as targeted searches for gender differences in specific dermatologic diseases, such as gender differences in melanoma , were performed. Additional articles were identified from cited references. Articles reporting gender differences in the following areas were reviewed: acne, skin cancer, wound healing, immunology, hair/alopecia, histology and skin physiology, disease-specific gender differences, and psychological responses to disease burden. Results: A recurring theme encountered in many of the articles reviewed referred to a delicate balance between normal and pathogenic conditions. This theme is highlighted by the complex interplay between estrogens and androgens in men and women, and how changes and adaptations with aging affect the disease process. Sex steroids modulate epidermal and dermal thickness as well as immune system function, and changes in these hormonal levels with aging and/or disease processes alter skin surface pH, quality of wound healing, and propensity to develop autoimmune disease, thereby significantly influencing potential for infection and other disease states. Gender differences in alopecia, acne, and skin cancers also distinguish hormonal interactions as a major target for which more research is needed to translate current findings to clinically significant diagnostic and therapeutic applications. Conclusions: The published findings on gender differences in skin yielded many advances in our understanding of cancer, immunology, psychology, skin histology, and specific dermatologic diseases. These advances will enable us to learn more about disease pathogenesis, with the goal of offering better treatments. Although gender differences can help us to individually tailor clinical management of disease processes, it is important to remember that a patient's sex should not radically alter diagnostic or therapeutic efforts until clinically significant differences between males and females arise from these findings. Because many of the results reviewed did not originate from randomized controlled clinical trials, it is difficult to generalize the data to the general population. However, the pressing need for additional research in these areas becomes exceedingly clear, and there is already a strong foundation on which to base future investigations.

5827 http://dx.doi.org/10.2165/00002018-200730060-00005
Statins, neuromuscular degenerative disease and an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-like syndrome: An analysis of individual case safety reports from vigibase
Background: The WHO Foundation Collaborating Centre for International Drug Monitoring (Uppsala Monitoring Centre [UMC]) has received many individual case safety reports (ICSRs) associating HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor drug (statin) use with the occurrence of muscle damage, including rhabdomyolysis, and also peripheral neuropathy. A new signal has now appeared of disproportionally high reporting of upper motor neurone lesions. Aim and Scope: The aim of this paper is to present the upper motor neurone lesion cases, with other evidence, as a signal of a relationship between statins and an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)-like syndrome. The paper also presents some arguments for considering that a spectrum of severe neuromuscular damage may be associated with statin use, albeit rarely. The paper does not do more than raise the signal for further work and analysis of what must be regarded as a potentially very serious and perhaps avoidable or reversible adverse reaction, though it also suggests action to be taken if an ALS-like syndrome should occur in a patient using statins. Methods: The 43 reports accounting for the disproportional reports in Vigibase (the database of the WHO Programme for International Drug Monitoring) are summarised and analysed for the diagnosis of an ALS-like syndrome. The issues of data quality and potential reporting bias are considered. Results: ‘Upper motor neurone lesion’ is a rare adverse event reported in relationship to drugs in Vigibase (a database containing nearly 4 million ICSRs). Of the total of 172 ICSRs on this reported term, 43 were related to statins, of which 40 were considered further: all but one case was reported as ALS. In 34/40 reports a statin was the sole reported suspected drug. The diagnostic criteria were variable, and seven of the statin cases also had features of peripheral neuropathy. Of a total of 5534 ICSRs of peripheral neuropathy related to any drug in Vigibase, 547 were on statins. The disproportional reporting of statins and upper motor neurone lesion persisted after age stratification, and such disproportionality was not seen for statins and Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease, extrapyramidal disorders, or multiple sclerosis-like syndromes. Discussion: Because the cases were sometimes atypical we propose the use of the term ‘ALS-like syndrome’ and speculate whether this is part of a spectrum of rare neuromuscular damage. The diagnosis of ALS is often problematic, and the insidiousness and chronicity of the disease make causality with a drug difficult to assess. The disproportionally high reporting makes this an important signal nevertheless, since ALS is serious clinically and statins are so widely used. Wide use of the statins also makes a chance finding more probable, but is unlikely to cause disproportional reporting when there are no obvious biases identified. Conclusion: We emphasise the rarity of this possible association, and also the need for further study to establish whether a causal relationship exists. We do advocate that trial discontinuation of a statin should be considered in patients with serious neuromuscular disease such as the ALS-like syndrome, given the poor prognosis and a possibility that progression of the disease may be halted or even reversed.

5830 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/ar2817
Synovial tissues concentrate secreted APRIL
Introduction. A proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL) from the TNF family, owing to its role in the generation and survival of plasma cells (PCs), is currently targeted for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) treatment. However, little is known about APRIL expression in RA lesions, hampering our understanding of the way APRIL may modulate this autoimmune disease. Methods. We performed immunological staining of human normal, non-RA and RA synovial tissues with a pair of antibodies specifically recognizing APRIL-producing cells and secreted APRIL. Results. We detected significant amounts of secreted APRIL in normal synovium mostly concentrated around blood vessels and at the lining layer, but no cells producing APRIL. Meanwhile, we observed that blood neutrophils constitutively secrete APRIL, indicating that blood APRIL may diffuse into the synovium via its fenestrated vessels. Synovium from non-RA and RA patients retained similarly secreted APRIL, but in this case APRIL-producing cells, including neutrophils and macrophages, were present in the tissue. Notably, PCs - when present in RA synovium - accumulated in areas of APRIL retention, spreading from blood vessels towards the lining layer. Conclusions. PCs accumulate in synovial zones rich in secreted APRIL, consistent with a pro-survival role of APRIL for PCs in RA. The concentration of APRIL by normal synovium indicates that this tissue may constitute a proper environment for PCs even before RA onset.

5833 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ad.2009.07.004
Lichen sclerosus
Lichen sclerosus is a chronic inflammatory mucocutaneous disease that is highly bothersome for men and women of all ages. The exact etiology is unknown, although genetic and autoimmune factors, as well as infections, have been implicated in its pathogenesis. First-line treatment is highly potent topical corticosteroid therapy for short periods. Surgery is reserved for cases of phimosis, urethral stenosis, synechiae, and squamous cell carcinoma.

5836 http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/npp.2010.172
The subjective, reinforcing, and analgesic effects of oxycodone in patients with chronic, non-malignant pain who are maintained on sublingual buprenorphine/naloxone
Some sources suggest that significant misuse of opioid drugs exists among patients with chronic pain. However, the risk factors and motivation behind their abuse may differ from those of other opioid abusers. This study sought to examine the abuse liability of oxycodone among patients with chronic, non-malignant pain who met the DSM-IV criteria for opioid abuse. Eighteen opioid-dependent patients with chronic pain lived on an in-patient unit of the New York State Psychiatric Institute during the 7-week study. Participants were given oral oxycodone (0, 10, 20, 40, and 60 mg/70 kg) while maintained on various doses of sublingual buprenorphine/naloxone (Bup/Nx; 2/0.5, 8/2, and 16/4 mg/day). Doses of both medications were administered under double-blind conditions. Oxycodone produced an overall positive, but less robust, subjective profile than previously reported in recreational opioid users without pain. Furthermore, unlike our findings in recreational opioid users and more similar to effects in non-drug-abusing individuals, oxycodone failed to serve as a reinforcer. As for the maintenance drug, Bup/Nx produced a dose-related reduction in some of the effects of acutely administered oxycodone. These data suggest that sublingual Bup/Nx has the potential as an analgesic medication and further research should investigate its use in treating patients with chronic pain who abuse opioids.

5838 http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/0194599813505967
Clinical Practice Guideline: Bell's Palsy
Objective Bell’s palsy, named after the Scottish anatomist, Sir Charles Bell, is the most common acute mono-neuropathy, or disorder affecting a single nerve, and is the most common diagnosis associated with facial nerve weakness/paralysis. Bell’s palsy is a rapid unilateral facial nerve paresis (weakness) or paralysis (complete loss of movement) of unknown cause. The condition leads to the partial or complete inability to voluntarily move facial muscles on the affected side of the face. Although typically self-limited, the facial paresis/paralysis that occurs in Bell’s palsy may cause significant temporary oral incompetence and an inability to close the eyelid, leading to potential eye injury. Additional long-term poor outcomes do occur and can be devastating to the patient. Treatments are generally designed to improve facial function and facilitate recovery. There are myriad treatment options for Bell’s palsy, and some controversy exists regarding the effectiveness of several of these options, and there are consequent variations in care. In addition, numerous diagnostic tests available are used in the evaluation of patients with Bell’s palsy. Many of these tests are of questionable benefit in Bell’s palsy. Furthermore, while patients with Bell’s palsy enter the health care system with facial paresis/paralysis as a primary complaint, not all patients with facial paresis/paralysis have Bell’s palsy. It is a concern that patients with alternative underlying etiologies may be misdiagnosed or have unnecessary delay in diagnosis. All of these quality concerns provide an important opportunity for improvement in the diagnosis and management of patients with Bell’s palsy. Purpose The primary purpose of this guideline is to improve the accuracy of diagnosis for Bell’s palsy, to improve the quality of care and outcomes for patients with Bell’s palsy, and to decrease harmful variations in the evaluation and management of Bell’s palsy. This guideline addresses these needs by encouraging accurate and efficient diagnosis and treatment and, when applicable, facilitating patient follow-up to address the management of long-term sequelae or evaluation of new or worsening symptoms not indicative of Bell’s palsy. The guideline is intended for all clinicians in any setting who are likely to diagnose and manage patients with Bell’s palsy. The target population is inclusive of both adults and children presenting with Bell’s palsy. Action Statements The development group made a strong recommendation that (a) clinicians should assess the patient using history and physical examination to exclude identifiable causes of facial paresis or paralysis in patients presenting with acute-onset unilateral facial paresis or paralysis, (b) clinicians should prescribe oral steroids within 72 hours of symptom onset for Bell’s palsy patients 16 years and older, (c) clinicians should not prescribe oral antiviral therapy alone for patients with new-onset Bell’s palsy, and (d) clinicians should implement eye protection for Bell’s palsy patients with impaired eye closure. The panel made recommendations that (a) clinicians should not obtain routine laboratory testing in patients with new-onset Bell’s palsy, (b) clinicians should not routinely perform diagnostic imaging for patients with new-onset Bell’s palsy, (c) clinicians should not perform electrodiagnostic testing in Bell’s palsy patients with incomplete facial paralysis, and (d) clinicians should reassess or refer to a facial nerve specialist those Bell’s palsy patients with (1) new or worsening neurologic findings at any point, (2) ocular symptoms developing at any point, or (3) incomplete facial recovery 3 months after initial symptom onset. The development group provided the following options : (a) clinicians may offer oral antiviral therapy in addition to oral steroids within 72 hours of symptom onset for patients with Bell’s palsy, and (b) clinicians may offer electrodiagnostic testing to Bell’s palsy patients with complete facial paralysis. The development group offered the following no recommendations : (a) no recommendation can be made regarding surgical decompression for patients with Bell’s palsy, (b) no recommendation can be made regarding the effect of acupuncture in patients with Bell’s palsy, and (c) no recommendation can be made regarding the effect of physical therapy in patients with Bell’s palsy.

5840 http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/eye.2013.5
Progressive ocular inflammation following anti-tubercular therapy for presumed ocular tuberculosis in a high-endemic setting
Purpose. To analyze the incidence and clinical course of patients developing progressive ocular inflammation following anti-tubercular therapy (ATT) for presumed ocular tuberculosis (TB). Methods. Retrospective analysis of medical records of patients who received ATT for presumed ocular TB and completed at least 12 months follow-up after initiation of ATT. The diagnosis of presumed ocular TB was based on presence of ocular signs suggestive of TB, evidence of past tubercular infection, and exclusion of mimicking clinical entities. All patients received a combination of ATT and corticosteroid therapy. Primary outcome measure was progression (worsening) of ocular inflammation, defined as a two-step increase in level of inflammation (anterior chamber/ vitreous) or the appearance of new lesions following initiation of ATT. Results. A total of 106 patients (64 male, 42 female) received ATT for presumed ocular TB. Twenty-six (24.5%) patients developed progressive intraocular inflammation following ATT. Primary diagnoses in these patients were: anterior uveitis ( n =1), intermediate uveitis ( n =9), retinal vasculitis ( n =3), serpiginous-like choroiditis ( n =7), multifocal choroiditis ( n =2), and pan-uveitis ( n =4). Following progressive inflammation, diagnosis was revised in two patients (7.7%)—both responded to alternative therapy. Of the rest, majority ( n =16; 61.5%) resolved with escalation of corticosteroid therapy. Five patients (19.2%)—all having intermediate uveitis—required therapeutic vitrectomy for resolution. Three patients (11.5%) had persistent inflammation at end of follow-up period. Conclusion. Progressive inflammation following ATT for presumed ocular TB is common. It generally resolves on escalation of corticosteroid therapy. Cases not responding to increased immunosuppression need to be re-investigated to rule out a nontubercular cause.

5841 http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13698575.2012.748884
The influence of popular media on perceptions of personal and population risk in possible disease outbreaks
Infectious disease outbreaks are uncertain and potentially risky events that often attract significant media attention. Previous research has shown that, regardless of their objective severity, diseases receiving greater coverage in the media are considered to be more serious and more representative of a disease than those receiving less coverage. This study assesses the role of media coverage in estimations of population risk (measured as perceived incidence among a specific population within a 1-year time period) and personal risk (measured as perceived personal likelihood of infection). Diseases with higher media coverage were considered more serious and more representative of a disease, and estimated to have lower incidence, than diseases less frequently found in the media. No difference in estimates of personal risk was found. A significant correlation between estimates of population and personal risk was found for diseases infrequently reported in the media. A weaker correlation between estimates of population and personal risk was found for diseases frequently reported in the media. The correlation remained unchanged when participants were exposed to additional information, including symptoms, mortality and estimates of prevalence.

5843 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00726-014-1736-9
Involvement of substance P and the NK-1 receptor in human pathology
The peptide substance P (SP) shows a widespread distribution in both the central and peripheral nervous systems, but it is also present in cells not belonging to the nervous system (immune cells, liver, lung, placenta, etc.). SP is located in all body fluids, such as blood, cerebrospinal fluid, breast milk, etc. i.e. it is ubiquitous in human body. After binding to the neurokinin-1 (NK-1) receptor, SP regulates many pathophysiological functions in the central nervous system, such as emotional behavior, stress, depression, anxiety, emesis, vomiting, migraine, alcohol addiction, seizures and neurodegeneration. SP has been also implicated in pain, inflammation, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, cholestasis, pruritus, myocarditis, bronchiolitis, abortus, bacteria and viral infection (e.g., HIV infection) and it plays an important role in cancer (e.g., tumor cell proliferation, antiapoptotic effects in tumor cells, angiogenesis, migration of tumor cells for invasion, infiltration and metastasis). This means that the SP/NK-1 receptor system is involved in the molecular bases of many human pathologies. Thus, knowledge of this system is the key for a better understanding and hence a better management of many human diseases. In this review, we update the involvement of the SP/NK-1 receptor system in the physiopathology of the above-mentioned pathologies and we suggest valuable future therapeutic interventions involving the use of NK-1 receptor antagonists, particularly in the treatment of emesis, depression, cancer, neural degeneration, inflammatory bowel disease, viral infection and pruritus, in which that system is upregulated.

5845 http://dx.doi.org/10.3109/02713683.2013.834938
Systematic Analysis of Wide-Field Fundus Autofluorescence (FAF) Imaging in Posterior Uveitis
Purpose : To evaluate wide-field fundus autofluorescence (FAF) in patients with uveitis with retinal or chorioretinal involvement. Materials and methods : We included 78 study eyes in this prospective study. Best-corrected visual acuity, a full clinical examination, wide-field green-light FAF and composite color, green and red laser separation fundus imaging with Optomap SLO were performed. In a systematic analysis, the number, extension and margins of central and peripheral retinal or chorioretinal alterations, scars and infiltrates in infectious and non-infectious uveitic study eyes were evaluated. Wide-field FAF and color fundus imaging results were compared regarding their diagnostic properties. Results : Nine out of 78 study eyes were diagnosed with infectious, 69 cases with non-infectious uveitis. Six infectious uveitic study eyes had changes of the peripheral fundus compared with 48 of 69 non-infectious uveitic eyes. In 33 (infectious versus non-infectious: 4 versus 29) cases, wide-field FAF images revealed more retinal or chorioretinal alterations or pathologies with a farther extended demarcation than wide-field composite color fundus imaging. Eleven out of 69 non-infectious study eyes were diagnosed with vasculitis which could be more precisely evaluated with wide-field FAF than wide-field composite color, green or red light filtered fundus imaging. Conclusions : Non-invasive wide-field FAF detects more retinal or chorioretinal involvement in patients with posterior uveitis than seen in color imaging and thus is useful in diagnosis and follow-up of uveitic patients.

5846 http://dx.doi.org/10.1089/cap.2014.0084
Clinical evaluation of youth with pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome (PANS): Recommendations from the 2013 PANS consensus conference
On May 23 and 24, 2013, the First PANS Consensus Conference was convened at Stanford University, calling together a geographically diverse group of clinicians and researchers from complementary fields of pediatrics: General and developmental pediatrics, infectious diseases, immunology, rheumatology, neurology, and child psychiatry. Participants were academicians with clinical and research interests in pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorder associated with streptococcus (PANDAS) in youth, and the larger category of pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome (PANS). The goals were to clarify the diagnostic boundaries of PANS, to develop systematic strategies for evaluation of suspected PANS cases, and to set forth the most urgently needed studies in this field. Presented here is a consensus statement proposing recommendations for the diagnostic evaluation of youth presenting with PANS.

5847 http://dx.doi.org/10.1503/cmaj.140848
Common harms from amoxicillin: A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized placebo-controlled trials for any indication
Background: When prescribing antibiotics for common indications, clinicians need information about both harms and benefits, information that is currently available only from observational studies. We quantified the common harms of the most frequently prescribed antibiotic, amoxicillin, from randomized placebo-controlled trials.

5850 http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/1352458515591069
Differentiating neuromyelitis optica from other causes of longitudinally extensive transverse myelitis on spinal magnetic resonance imaging
Background: Although spinal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings of neuromyelitis optica (NMO) have been described, there is limited data available that help differentiate NMO from other causes of longitudinally extensive transverse myelitis (LETM). Objective: To investigate the spinal MRI findings of LETM that help differentiate NMO at the acute stage from multiple sclerosis (MS) and other causes of LETM. Methods: We enrolled 94 patients with LETM into our study. Bright spotty lesions (BSL), the lesion distribution and location were evaluated on axial T2-weighted images. Brainstem extension, cord expansion, T1 darkness and lesion enhancement were noted. We also reviewed the brain MRI of the patients during LETM. Results: Patients with NMO had a greater amount of BSL and T1 dark lesions ( p < 0.001 and 0.003, respectively). The lesions in NMO patients were more likely to involve greater than one-half of the spinal cord’s cross-sectional area; to enhance and be centrally-located, or both centrally- and peripherally-located in the cord. Of the 62 available brain MRIs, 14 of the 27 whom were NMO patients had findings that may be specific to NMO. Conclusions: Certain spinal cord MRI features are more commonly seen in NMO patients and so obtaining brain MRI during LETM may support diagnosis.

5851 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00701-016-2922-1
Unilateral endonasal transcribriform approach with septal transposition for olfactory groove meningioma: can olfaction be preserved?
Background. Loss of olfaction has been considered inevitable in endoscopic endonasal resection of olfactory groove meningiomas. Olfaction preservation may be feasible through an endonasal unilateral transcribriform approach, with the option for expansion using septal transposition and contralateral preservation of the olfactory apparatus. Methods. An expanded unilateral endonasal transcribriform approach with septal transposition was performed in five cadaver heads. The approach was applied in a surgical case of a 24 × 26-mm olfactory groove meningioma originating from the right cribriform plate with partially intact olfaction. Results. The surgical approach offered adequate exposure to the anterior skull base bilaterally. The nasal/septal mucosa was preserved on the contralateral side. Gross total resection of the meningioma was achieved with the successful preservation of the contralateral olfactory apparatus and preoperative olfaction. Six months later, the left nasal cavity showed no disruption of the mucosal lining and the right side was at the appropriate stage of healing for a harvested nasoseptal flap. One year later, the preoperative olfactory function was intact and favorably viewed by the patient. Objective testing of olfaction showed microsomia. Conclusions. Olfaction preservation may be feasible in the endoscopic endonasal resection of a unilateral olfactory groove meningioma through a unilateral transcribriform approach with septal transposition and preservation of the contralateral olfactory apparatus.

5854 http://dx.doi.org/10.1053/j.semdp.2016.11.007
Cutaneous marginal zone lymphomas
Primary cutaneous marginal zone lymphoma (CMZL) is one of the major primary B-cell lymphomas of skin. Two types are recognized: a more common class-chain switched CMZL, and a much less common IgM+ CMZL. The extremely indolent course, together with other features distinct from most other MALT lymphomas, has led some to question whether at least the class-switched cases should be considered an overt lymphoma.

5855 http://dx.doi.org/10.1097/rhu.0000000000000588
Peripheral bacterial septic arthritis: Review of diagnosis and management
Septic arthritis refers to an infection in a joint due to a bacterial, mycobacterial, or fungal cause. Joint infections are a serious cause of morbidity and mortality and constitute a true musculoskeletal emergency. The estimated incidence of septic arthritis in the general population is between 2 and 6 cases per 100,000 people per year. The most common presentation is an acute monoarthritis. Identification of organisms in the synovial fluid is the criterion standard for diagnosis. Synovial fluid aspiration should be performed prior to initiating antibiotics. While no diagnostic cutoff exists for synovial fluid white blood cell count, increasing leukocytosis is associated with a higher likelihood of an infectious cause of arthritis, and patients commonly present with values greater than 50,000/μL. The cornerstones of treating septic bacterial arthritis are adequate drainage and antimicrobials. Joint drainage is always recommended in septic arthritis ; however, no clear guidelines or strong evidence exist to guide the preferred method of drainage. Options for joint drainage include daily needle aspiration, arthroscopy, or open surgical drainage via arthrotomy.

5856 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s13643-017-0465-z
Updated systematic review: Associations between proximity to animal feeding operations and health of individuals in nearby communities
Objective. The objective of this review was to update a systematic review of associations between living near an animal feeding operation (AFO) and human health. Methods. The MEDLINE® and MEDLINE® In-Process, Centre for Agricultural Biosciences Abstracts, and Science Citation Index databases were searched. Reference lists of included articles were hand-searched. Eligible studies reported exposure to an AFO and an individual-level human health outcome. Two reviewers performed study selection and data extraction. Results. The search returned 3702 citations. Sixteen articles consisting of 10 study populations were included in the analysis. The health outcomes were lower and upper respiratory tracts, MRSA, other infectious disease, neurological, psychological, dermatological, otologic, ocular, gastrointestinal, stress and mood, and other non-infectious health outcomes. Most studies were observational and used prevalence measures of outcome. An association between Q fever risk and proximity to goat production was reported. Other associations were unclear. Risk of bias was serious or critical for most exposure-outcome associations. Multiplicity (i.e., a large number of potentially correlated outcomes and exposures assessed on the same study subjects) was common in the evidence base. Conclusions. Few studies reported an association between surrogate clinical outcomes and AFO proximity for respiratory tract-related outcomes. There were no consistent dose-response relationships between surrogate clinical outcome and AFO proximity. A new finding was that Q fever in goats is likely associated with an increased Q fever risk in community members. The review results for the non-respiratory health outcomes were inconclusive because only a small number of studies were available or the between-study results were inconsistent. Systematic review registration. PROSPERO CRD42014010521

5861 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.dci.2017.12.017
Peptidoglycan recognition proteins in hematophagous arthropods
Hematophagous arthropods are medically important disease vectors that transmit a variety of pathogens. Unlike mammals that employ both innate and adaptive immunity to clear invading pathogens, these vectors rely mainly on an innate immune system to combat pathogens. Peptidoglycan recognition proteins (PGRPs) are important components of innate immune signaling pathways and are responsible for recognizing microbe-associated molecular patterns (MAMPs), thus regulating host immune interactions with both harmful and helpful microbes. Here we review a number of recent studies in different vectors that address the function of PGRPs in immune regulation. Further, we discuss the variation of PGRPs between vectors and Drosophila .

5868 http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13814788.2019.1625886
Diagnostic errors reported in primary healthcare and emergency departments: A retrospective and descriptive cohort study of 4830 reported cases of preventable harm in Sweden
Background: Diagnostic errors are a major patient safety concern in primary healthcare and emergency care. These settings involve a high degree of uncertainty regarding patients’ diagnoses and appear to be those most prone to diagnostic errors. Diagnostic errors comprise missed, delayed, or incorrect diagnoses preventing the patient from receiving correct and timely treatment. Data regarding which diagnoses are affected in these settings are scarce. Objectives: To understand the distribution of diagnoses among reported diagnostic errors in primary health and emergency care as a step towards creating countermeasures for safer care. Methods: A retrospective and descriptive cohort study investigating reported diagnostic errors. A nationwide cohort was collected from two databases. The study was performed in Sweden from 1 January 2011 until 31 December 2016. The setting was primary healthcare and emergency departments. Results: In total, 4830 cases of preventable harm were identified. Of these, 2208 (46%) were due to diagnostic errors. Diagnoses affected in primary care were cancer (37% and 23%, respectively, in the two databases; mostly colon and skin), fractures (mostly hand), heart disease (mostly myocardial infarction), and rupture of tendons (mostly Achilles). Of the diagnostic errors in the emergency department, fractures constituted 24% (mostly hand and wrist, 29%). Rupture/injury of muscle/tendon constituted 19% (mostly finger tendons, rotator cuff tendons, and Achilles tendon). Conclusion: Our findings show that the most frequently missed diagnoses among reported harm were cancers in primary care and fractures in the emergency departments.

5869 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.rmcr.2020.101063
Efficacy of glutathione therapy in relieving dyspnea associated with COVID-19 pneumonia: A report of 2 cases
Purpose. Infection with COVID-19 potentially can result in severe outcomes and death from “cytokine storm syndrome”, resulting in novel coronavirus pneumonia (NCP) with severe dyspnea, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), fulminant myocarditis and multiorgan dysfunction with or without disseminated intravascular coagulation. No published treatment to date has been shown to adequately control the inflammation and respiratory symptoms associated with COVID-19, apart from oxygen therapy and assisted ventilation. We evaluated the effects of using high dose oral and/or IV glutathione in the treatment of 2 patients with dyspnea secondary to COVID-19 pneumonia.

5870 http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/21641846.2020.1778227
Post-viral fatigue and COVID-19: lessons from past epidemics
The COVID-19 pandemic, resulting from Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), has severely impacted the population worldwide with a great mortality rate. The current article reviews the literature on short- and long-term health consequences of prior epidemics and infections to assess potential health complications that may be associated with post-COVID-19 recovery. Past research on post-epidemic and post-infection recovery has suggested that such complications include the development of severe fatigue. Certain factors, such as the severity of infection, in addition to the ‘cytokine storm’ experienced by many COVID-19 patients, may contribute to the development of later health problems. We suggest that the patterns observed in past epidemics and infections may re-occur in the current COVID-19 pandemic.

5872 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10519-019-09986-3
The Association Between Somatic Health, Autism Spectrum Disorder, and Autistic Traits
This study used a twin cohort to investigate the association of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and autistic traits with somatic health. A total of 344 twins (172 pairs; mean age 15.56 ± 5.62 years) enriched for ASD and other neurodevelopmental conditions were examined. Medical history and current physical problems were collected with a validated questionnaire to determine twin’s somatic health. The Social Responsiveness Scale (SRS-2) was used to measure the participant’s severity of autistic traits. Identified somatic health issues with significant within-twin pair differences were tested in relation to both ASD diagnosis and autistic traits in a co-twin control model. Twins with ASD exhibited more neurological and immunological health problems compared to those without ASD (p = 0.005 and p = 0.004, respectively). The intra-pair differences of neurological conditions and SRS-2 score were significantly correlated in monozygotic twins differing for autism traits (r = 0.40, p = 0.001), while the correlation was not found for immunological problems. In addition, a conditional model for analysis of within-twin pair effects revealed an association between neurological problems and clinical ASD diagnosis (Odds ratio per neurological problem 3.15, p = 0.02), as well as autistic traits (β = 10.44, p = 0.006), after adjusting for possible effects of co-existing attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and general intellectual abilities. Our findings suggest that neurological problems are associated with autism, and that non-shared environmental factors contribute to the overlap for both clinical ASD and autistic traits. Further population-based twin studies are warranted to validate our results and examine in detailed the shared genetic and environmental contributions of neurological problems and ASD.

5873 http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10428194.2019.1688323
Risk factors for infections and secondary malignancies in patients with a myeloproliferative neoplasm treated with ruxolitinib: a dual-center, propensity score-matched analysis
Ruxolitinib is a JAK1/2 inhibitor approved for the treatment of myelofibrosis (MF) and polycythemia vera (PV). Recent data have suggested the possibility of increased infectious and secondary malignancy rates in patients treated with ruxolitinib. We conducted a dual-center, retrospective study of 202 myeloproliferative neoplasm (MPN) patients receiving ruxolitinib and a control cohort of 73 ruxolitinib-naïve MPN patients. We utilized propensity score matching to analyze the primary outcome of development of any grade infection. Infections occurred in 38.4% of ruxolitinib-naïve patients and 42.6% of ruxolitinib-treated patients and were primarily grade 1/2. After propensity score weighting, there was no difference in risk of infection between ruxolitinib-treated and -naïve patients with MF (HR 1.15 [95% CI 0.80–1.65], p = .466) and non-MF MPNs (HR = 0.52 [95% CI 0.21–1.28, p = .152). These results suggest that there is not an increased risk of infection with ruxolitinib therapy.

5874 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s13365-020-00909-1
Concurrent tonic pupil and trochlear nerve palsy in COVID-19
Since COVID-19 was first reported, different neurological complications have been acknowledged, but their description is constantly evolving. We report a case of concurrent tonic pupil and trochlear nerve palsy in this context. A 62-year-old man reported a 5-day history of binocular vertical diplopia and blurred vision in his left eye, noticing that his left pupil was dilated. He had suffered a flu-like syndrome 2 weeks before. Clinical exam showed a right trochlear nerve palsy and a left mydriatic pupil. MRI, X chest ray, and analytical results were normal. Antibodies for SARS-CoV-2 were positive (low IgM and high IgG titers). Antiganglioside antibodies were negative. A 0.125% pilocarpine test confirmed Adie’s pupil diagnosis. The patient was treated with a tapered prednisone dose with resolution of his diplopia but no change in Adie’s pupil. This is the first case reporting Adie’s pupil as a postinfectious manifestation of COVID-19. An immune-mediated mechanism is presumed.

5875 http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/22221751.2020.1756697
Jamestown Canyon virus in Massachusetts: clinical case series and vector screening
Jamestown Canyon virus (JCV) is a neuroinvasive arbovirus that is found throughout North America and increasingly recognized as a public health concern. From 2004 to 2012, an average of 1.7 confirmed cases were reported annually in the United States, whereas from 2013 to 2018 this figure increased over seventeen-fold to 29.2 cases per year. The rising number of reported human infections highlights the need for better understanding of the clinical manifestations and epidemiology of JCV. Here, we describe nine patients diagnosed with neuroinvasive JCV infection in Massachusetts from 2013, the year of the first reported case in the state, to 2017. Because current diagnostic testing relies on serology, which is complicated by cross-reactivity with related orthobunyaviruses and can be negative in immunosuppressed patients, we developed and evaluated an RT-qPCR assay for detection of JCV RNA. We tested this on the available archived serum from two patients, but did not detect viral RNA. JCV is transmitted by multiple mosquito species and its primary vector in Massachusetts is unknown, so we additionally applied the RT-qPCR assay and confirmatory RNA sequencing to assess JCV prevalence in a vector candidate, Ochlerotatus canadensis . We identified JCV in 0.6% of mosquito pools, a similar prevalence to neighboring Connecticut. We assembled the first Massachusetts JCV genome directly from a mosquito sample, finding high identity to JCV isolates collected over a 60-year period. Further studies are needed to reconcile the low vector prevalence and low rate of viral evolutionary change with the increasing number of reported cases.

5879 http://dx.doi.org/10.1385/mb:21:2:129
The development and use of vaccine adjuvants
Interest in vaccine adjuvants is intense and growing, because many of the new subunit vaccine candidates lack sufficient immunogenicity to be clinically useful. In this review, I have emphasized modern vaccine adjuvants injected parenterally, or administered orally, intranasally, or transcutaneously with licensed or experimental vaccines in humans. Every adjuvant has a complex and often multi-factorial immunological mechanism, usually poorly understood in vivo. Many determinants of adjuvanticity exist, and each adjuvanted vaccine is unique. Adjuvant safety is critical and can enhance, retard, or stop development of an adjuvanted vaccine. The choice of an adjuvant often depends upon expensive experimental trial and error, upon cost, and upon commercial availability. Extensive regulatory and administrative support is required to conduct clinical trials of adjuvanted vaccines. Finally, comparative adjuvant trials where one antigen is formulated with different adjuvants and administered by a common protocol to animals and humans can accelerate vaccine development.

5880 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1471-2091-4-13
Comparative inhibition by substrate analogues 3-methoxy-and 3-hydroxydesaminokynurenine and an improved 3 step purification of recombinant human …
Background. Kynureninase is a key enzyme on the kynurenine pathway of tryptophan metabolism. One of the end products of the pathway is the neurotoxin quinolinic acid which appears to be responsible for neuronal cell death in a number of important neurological diseases. This makes kynureninase a possible therapeutic target for diseases such as Huntington's, Alzheimer's and AIDS related dementia, and the development of potent inhibitors an important research aim. Results. Two new kynurenine analogues, 3-hydroxydesaminokynurenine and 3-methoxydesaminokynurenine, were synthesised as inhibitors of kynureninase and tested on the tryptophan-induced bacterial enzyme from Pseudomonas fluorescens , the recombinant human enzyme and the rat hepatic enzyme. They were found to be mixed inhibitors of all three enzymes displaying both competitive and non competitive inhibition. The 3-hydroxy derivative gave low K i values of 5, 40 and 100 nM respectively. An improved 3-step purification scheme for recombinant human kynureninase was also developed. Conclusion. For kynureninase from all three species the 2-amino group was found to be crucial for activity whilst the 3-hydroxyl group played a fundamental role in binding at the active site presumably via hydrogen bonding. The potency of the various inhibitors was found to be species specific. The 3-hydroxylated inhibitor had a greater affinity for the human enzyme, consistent with its specificity for 3-hydroxykynurenine as substrate, whilst the methoxylated version yielded no significant difference between bacterial and human kynureninase. The modified purification described is relatively quick, simple and cost effective.

5881 http://dx.doi.org/10.1055/s-2004-814168
Dresdner Dermatologische Demonstration 2003
Permissions and Reprints Vorsitz: Prof. Dr. U. Wollina Berichterstatter: Priv.-Doz. Dr. E. Köstler, Dipl.-Med. G. Hansel, Prof. Dr. U. Wollina Histopathologie: Frau Dr. J. Schönlebe Klinische Photodokumentation: Frau R. Herz Gastvorträge: Frau Priv.-Doz. Dr. B. Tebbe (Berlin), Prof. Dr. W. H. Burgdorf (Tutzingen) Priv.-Doz. Dr. E. Köstler Hautklinik am Krankenhaus Dresden-Friedrichstadt, Städtisches Klinikum · Friedrichstraße 41 · 01067 Dresden Email: [email protected]

5882 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10021-004-0076-0
Human health, well-being, and global ecological scenarios
This article categorizes four kinds of adverse effects to human health caused by ecosystem change: direct, mediated, modulated, and systems failure. The effects are categorized on their scale, complexity, and lag-time. Some but not all of these can be classified as resulting from reduced ecosystem services. The articles also explores the impacts that different socioeconomic–ecologic scenarios are likely to have on human health and how changes to human health may, in turn, influence the unfolding of four different plausible future scenarios. We provide examples to show that our categorization is a useful taxonomy for understanding the complex relationships between ecosystems and human well-being and for predicting how future ecosystem changes may affect human health.

5883 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1471-2415-5-20
Bilateral neuro-retinitis following chick embryo cell anti-rabies vaccination–a case report
Background. The Optic nerve is rarely involved after sheep brain anti-rabies vaccination in the form of retrobulbar neuritis or papillitis. Bilateral neuroretinitis after chick embryo cell antirabies vaccination has not been reported. Case presentation. We report the case of a 56 year old male who developed bilateral neuro-retinitis following three injections of antirabies vaccine prepared from the chick embryo. Conclusion. The chick embryo cell antirabies vaccine can cause bilateral neuroretinits which has not been reported previously.

5884 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/ar1946
The new IL-1 family member IL-1F8 stimulates production of inflammatory mediators by synovial fibroblasts and articular chondrocytes
Six novel members of the IL-1 family of cytokines were recently identified, primarily through the use of DNA database searches for IL-1 homologues, and were named IL-1F5 to IL-1F10. In the present study, we investigated the effect of IL-1F8 on primary human joint cells, and examined the expression of the new IL-1 family members in human and mouse joints. Human synovial fibroblasts (hSFs) and human articular chondrocytes (hACs) expressed the IL-1F8 receptor (IL-1Rrp2) and produced pro-inflammatory mediators in response to recombinant IL-1F8. IL-1F8 mRNA expression was increased in hSFs upon stimulation with proinflammatory cytokines, whereas in hACs IL-1F8 mRNA expression was constitutive. However, IL-1F8 protein was undetectable in hSF and hAC culture supernatants. Furthermore, although IL-1β protein levels were increased in inflamed human and mouse joint tissue, IL-1F8 protein levels were not. IL-1F8 levels in synovial fluids were similar to or lower than those in matched serum samples, suggesting that the joint itself is not a major source of IL-1F8. Serum levels of IL-1F8 were similar in healthy donors, and patients with rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis and septic shock, and did not correlate with inflammatory status. Interestingly however, we observed high IL-1F8 levels in several serum samples in all groups. In conclusion, IL-1F8 exerts proinflammatory effects in primary human joint cells. Joint and serum IL-1F8 protein levels did not correlate with inflammation, but they were high in some human serum samples tested, including samples from patients with rheumatoid arthritis. It remains to be determined whether circulating IL-1F8 can contribute to joint inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis.

5885 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1471-244x-7-1
Psychiatric disorder criteria and their application to research in different racial groups
Background. The advent of standardized classification and assessment of psychiatric disorders, and considerable joint efforts among many countries has led to the reporting of international rates of psychiatric disorders, and inevitably, their comparison between different racial groups. Results. In neurologic diseases with defined genetic etiologies, the same genetic cause has different phenotypes in different racial groups. Conclusion. We suggest that genetic differences between races mean that diagnostic criteria refined in one racial group, may not be directly and simply applicable to other racial groups and thus more effort needs to be expended on defining diseases in other groups. Cross-racial confounds (in addition to cultural confounds) make the interpretation of rates in different groups even more hazardous than seems to have been appreciated.

5886 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10194-007-0418-3
The differential diagnosis of chronic daily headaches: an algorithm-based approach
Chronic daily headaches (CDHs) refers to primary headaches that happen on at least 15 days per month, for 4 or more hours per day, for at least three consecutive months. The differential diagnosis of CDHs is challenging and should proceed in an orderly fashion. The approach begins with a search for “red flags” that suggest the possibility of a secondary headache. If secondary headaches that mimic CDHs are excluded, either on clinical grounds or through investigation, the next step is to classify the headaches based on the duration of attacks. If the attacks last less than 4 hours per day, a trigeminal autonomic cephalalgia (TAC) is likely. TACs include episodic and chronic cluster headache, episodic and chronic paroxysmal hemicrania, SUNCT, and hypnic headache. If the duration is ≥4 h, a CDH is likely and the differential diagnosis encompasses chronic migraine, chronic tension-type headache, new daily persistent headache and hemicrania continua. The clinical approach to diagnosing CDH is the scope of this review.

5887 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1746-4269-3-14
Biodiversity, traditional medicine and public health: where do they meet?
Given the increased use of traditional medicines, possibilities that would ensure its successful integration into a public health framework should be explored. This paper discusses some of the links between biodiversity and traditional medicine, and addresses their implications to public health. We explore the importance of biodiversity and ecosystem services to global and human health, the risks which human impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity present to human health and welfare.

5888 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10745-007-9128-3
Ecology of increasing diseases: population growth and environmental degradation
The World Health Organization (WHO) and other organizations report that the prevalence of human diseases during the past decade is rapidly increasing. Population growth and the pollution of water, air, and soil are contributing to the increasing number of human diseases worldwide. Currently an estimated 40% of world deaths are due to environmental degradation. The ecology of increasing diseases has complex factors of environmental degradation, population growth, and the current malnutrition of about 3.7 billion people in the world.

5892 http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1741-7007-8-108
Paleoclimate and bubonic plague: a forewarning of future risk?
Pandemics of bubonic plague have occurred in Eurasia since the sixth century AD. Climatic variations in Central Asia affect the population size and activity of the plague bacterium's reservoir rodent species, influencing the probability of human infection. Using innovative time-series analysis of surrogate climate records spanning 1,500 years, a study in BMC Biology concludes that climatic fluctuations may have influenced these pandemics. This has potential implications for health risks from future climate change. See research article 

5896 http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10584-021-03107-y
Making the climate crisis personal through a focus on human health
Climate change–driven health impacts are serious, widespread, and costly. Importantly, such damages are largely absent from policy debates around the costs of delay and inaction on this crisis. While climate change is a global problem, its impacts are localized and personal, and there is growing demand for specific information on how climate change affects human health in different places. Existing research indicates that climate-fueled health problems are growing, and that investments in reducing carbon pollution and improving community resilience could help to avoid tens to hundreds of billions of dollars in climate-sensitive health impacts across the USA each year, including those stemming from extreme heat, air pollution, hurricanes, and wildfires. Science that explores the underappreciated local health impacts and health-related costs of climate change can enhance advocacy by demonstrating the need to both address the root causes of climate change and enhance climate resilience in vulnerable communities. The climate crisis has historically been predominantly conceived as a global environmental challenge; examination of climate impacts on public health enables researchers to localize this urgent problem for members of the public and policymakers. In turn, approaches to climate science that focus on health can make dangerous climate impacts and the need for cost-effective solutions more salient and tangible.

